You can remove the application name from the registry as a source of event log entries.
Derived class with handlers for errors we can handle (perhaps).
Insert thousands separators into a digit string.
If underlying file has changed, reopen the file before emitting the record to it.
The func will be passed to sys.setprofile() for each thread, before its run() method is called.
The geturl() method can be used to get at this redirected URL.
Convert from datetime in UTC to datetime in local time
Return process object representing the current process
Returns the number of callbacks removed.
Dictionary style get() method, including 'value' lookup.
Returns a new SharedMemory instance with the specified size in bytes, to be tracked by the manager.
Return None, or the sequence of allowed domains (as a tuple).
This can be overridden in sitecustomize, usercustomize or PYTHONSTARTUP.
A proxy for a single section from a parser.
For binary compatibility the so-called builddate is needed.
Main purpose: use in the Demo-Viewer turtle.Demo.py.
All files processed by refactor() must start with this path.
pass the url and optionally data to post to an HTTP URL, and get a file-like object back.
Otherwise, classes using multiple inheritance and their descendants will appear multiple times.
Essentially a plus operation with all trailing zeros removed from the result.
If the parameter already exists in the header, its value will be replaced with the new value.
The default setting is determined by calling getdefaultlocale().
:param context: The information for the environment creation request being processed.
Otherwise, just implement the 2-argument version described in Complex.
'args' is a list of the parameter names.
:param path: Absolute pathname of a directory containing script.
If none were set, return an error message.
Helper to get optional details about const references Returns the dereferenced constant and its repr if the value can be calculated.
Create the child mocks for attributes and return value.
If the optional 'forceload' argument is 1, we reload the module from disk (unless it's a dynamic extension).
Create a class object dynamically using the appropriate metaclass.
This is the recommended command before 'LOGOUT'.
Return package logger -- if it does not already exist then it is created.
Support module for CGI (Common Gateway Interface) scripts.
If specified, the low-water limit must be less than or equal to the high-water limit.
Iterate over this subtree and yield all existing files (of any kind, including directories) matching the given relative pattern.
Root class for Screen based on Tkinter.
Initialize the list of filters to be an empty list.
Return the sequence of blocked domains (as a tuple).
Output the record to the file, catering for rollover as described in doRollover().
Return True if the path contains one of the special names reserved by the system, if any.
ValueError: If the last object is not greater than the first.
NetmaskValueError: If the netmask isn't valid for an IPv4 address.
Returns: An IPv4Address or IPv6Address object.
Statistic difference on memory allocations between two Snapshot instance.
:param compresslevel: Compresslevel used to determine the xfl bytes.
A test case that wraps a test function.
The return value is the number of bytes written.
It can report the error to continue with the walk, or raise the exception to abort the walk.
All arguments to commands are converted to strings, except for AUTHENTICATE, and the last argument to APPEND which is passed as an IMAP4 literal.
Otherwise None is returned by the context manager.
Each line will be wrapped at, at most, maxlinelen characters (defaults to 76 characters).
Return the fields of a dataclass instance as a new tuple of field values.
Base command that knows how to handle the .pypirc file
Rounds down (not towards 0 if negative)
errors determines the strictness of encoding and decoding (see the codecs.register) and defaults to "strict".
Optional failobj is the object to return if there is no Content-Type header.
Set up the environment for one request
Return True if self is infinite; otherwise return False.
Return False if it can't be determined.
Install importers for builtin and frozen modules
Is a good idea for garbage collection.
Generate a UUID from a host ID, sequence number, and the current time.
This simplified form of the BNF from the RFC is made to conform with the RFC BNF through some extra checks.
Strips positive and zero counts, and flips the sign on negative counts.
Context diffs are a compact way of showing line changes and a few lines of context.
Does not contain arguments' default values.
Decodes the input strings from the iterator using an IncrementalDecoder.
Returns b"" if the file is already at EOF.
Should only be called after seeing a SB or SE command.
Returns an empty string if EOF is hit immediately.
Return a deep copy of self with the given attributes replaced.
Raise OSError if the file wasn't found.
Starts event loop - calling Tkinter's mainloop function.
These will be sorted in the order they appeared in the original message, and may contain duplicates.
Return a key suitable for sorting between networks and addresses.
A subclass of Queue; retrieves entries in priority order (lowest first).
Adds a newline if it isn't the start of generated source
Log in on an SMTP server that requires authentication.
Optional casefold is a flag specifying whether a lowercase alphabet is acceptable as input.
Return pair (transport, protocol), where transport supports the ReadTransport interface.
This version returns 1, which is the base message ID in win32service.pyd.
Log current error, and send error output to client if possible
For round-down, the result is the largest finite number that can be represented in the current precision, with the sign of the intermediate result.
Args: typeobj: The data type to call this function on when both values are of the same type in assertEqual().
Set whether this thread is a daemon.
Fail immediately, with the given message.
Called just before drawing a shape to be filled.
Return the result this future represents.
Each row represents a week; week entries are (day number, weekday number) tuples.
Set the turtle's second coordinate to y Argument: y -- a number (integer or float) Set the turtle's first coordinate to x, second coordinate remains unchanged.
On success, the data and separator will be removed from the internal buffer (consumed).
The objects used by the email package by default that get passed to this method will always have a defects attribute with an append method.
Page through text by feeding it to another program.
indent Number of spaces to indent for each level of nesting.
With one argument, list 11 lines starting at that line.
Need to make sure that any characters that might be interpreted as regex syntax are escaped.
If it is, open browser and get first page.
Returns the new Path instance pointing to the target path.
Abstract base class for version numbering classes.
- Turtles now have an undo()-method with configurable undo-buffer.
Example input is converted to regular code.
create and manipulate C data types in Python
Return the instance of ZipInfo given 'name'.
The harmonic mean is the reciprocal of the arithmetic mean of the reciprocals of the data.
Should return None if not applicable (e.g.
Creates a new Decimal instance but using self as context.
Returned values is a named tuple with attributes 'total', 'used' and 'free', which are the amount of total, used and free space, in bytes.
Initialize host to localhost, port to standard ftp port.
Return an estimate of the number of items in obj.
Internal helper to copy state from another Future.
The 'data' argument can be any object type that compile() supports.
If a member occurs more than once in the archive, its last occurrence is assumed to be the most up-to-date version.
Return the string immediately following the invocant node.
Create an application archive from SOURCE.
Preserve the context stack by transferring it to a new instance.
Returns a zero value if a record is to be dropped, else non-zero.
This is a version of fnmatch() which doesn't case-normalize its arguments.
In pax headers, "name" is called "path".
Return the number of threads currently waiting at the barrier.
A file object providing transparent bzip2 (de)compression.
The exclamation point can be omitted unless the first word of the statement resembles a debugger command.
By default, percent-encoded sequences are decoded with UTF-8, and invalid sequences are replaced by a placeholder character.
This can be especially useful with objects that override attribute accesses.
Create a new task in this group and return it.
distutils.msvc9compiler Contains MSVCCompiler, an implementation of the abstract CCompiler class for the Microsoft Visual Studio 2008.
Arguments: fun -- a function with two arguments, the coordinates of the clicked point on the canvas.
The default path names are returned as str.
Barrier is broken by barrier.abort() call.
This object provides sequence-like access to the logical ancestors of a path.
Guess whether a path refers to a package directory.
Default position is 0 (start of chunk).
If neither an atom or a quoted-string is found before the next special, a HeaderParseError is raised.
Return the class that implements the Distutils command named by 'command'.
This can be used to raise an exception if invalid JSON numbers are encountered.
The arguments are as for sendmail, except that msg is an email.message.Message object.
Dummy interpolation that passes the value through with no changes.
exist, then they are renamed to "app.log.2", "app.log.3" etc.
This is essentially a server marker used to tell the server to skip over any data up to the given marker.
Called before writing the mailbox to file f.
OptionParser instances should use one of the HelpFormatter subclasses for formatting help; by default IndentedHelpFormatter is used.
Set the current state of the encoder.
Generates forward and reverse operators given a purely-rational operator and a function from the operator module.
Return True if there is a breakpoint for filename:lineno.
Implements generic behavior and provides tools for subclasses.
A context manager for preparing the source for expressions.
Place the barrier into a 'broken' state.
Read in docstrings from lang-specific docstring dictionary.
digestmod: A hash name suitable for hashlib.new().
'depends', if given, is a list of filenames that all targets depend on.
Returns the system's release version, e.g.
Dump message contents to target file.
Set the two sequences to be compared.
It has no documented public API and should not be used directly.
This, however, depends on whether the socket module really checks the certificates.
Get channel binding data for current connection.
On Windows, use 'strict' error handler if the file system encoding is 'mbcs' (which is the default encoding).
encoding and errors: specify how to decode percent-encoded sequences into Unicode characters, as accepted by the bytes.decode() method.
It returns the string, the remaining value, and a flag that is True iff there were any quoted printables decoded.
Return the string input If the dialog is canceled, return None.
Set the negative aliases for this option parser.
Note that use of these placeholders will make your event logs big, as the entire message source is held in the log.
Set the factory to be used when instantiating a log record.
It simply provides data to subclasses.
It returns default in case the command should fail.
If indent is a non-negative integer or string, then the tree will be pretty-printed with that indent level.
A header that must have a value had none
Message with mbox- or MMDF-specific properties.
Called by TestRunner after test run
Subclass of TextDoc which overrides string styling
Timing: Basic R-O is cubic time worst case and quadratic time expected case.
It replicates the behavior of the email package version 5.1.
Does the main part of the work for undo()
Delete stamp with given stampid Argument: stampid - an integer, must be return value of previous stamp() call.
Raises BlockingIOError if the underlying raw stream has no data at the moment.
- A TurtleScreen class with methods controlling background color or background image, window and canvas size and other properties of the TurtleScreen.
There are currently two such classes implemented: StrictVersion and LooseVersion.
This function is a suitable "key" argument for sorted() and list.sort().
The result is returned as a bytes object.
So, basically, we have printable runs, plus control characters or nulls in the obsolete syntax, separated by whitespace.
This is mainly useful for debugging purposes.
On Windows kill() is an alias for terminate().
Enter a new event in the queue at an absolute time.
For HTTP and HTTPS URLs, this function returns a http.client.HTTPResponse object slightly modified.
number is the number of substitutions that were made.
The getopt() function stops processing options as soon as a non-option argument is encountered.
If the argument is a Future, it is returned directly.
It accepts a readline-like method which is called repeatedly to get the next line of input (or b"" for EOF).
- metavar -- The name to be used for the option's argument with the help string.
No normalization or symlink resolution is performed.
If the coroutine was terminated by an exception, this returns the list of traceback frames.
Authobject to use with CRAM-MD5 authentication.
Note that status code 200 is sent prior to execution of a CGI script, so scripts cannot send other status codes such as 302 (redirect).
Return a callable object that calls the given method on its operand.
Return a condensed description of the breakpoint.
Size defaults to the current IO position as reported by tell().
The function returns empty strings for tuple entries that cannot be determined.
The default content type is not stored in the Content-Type header.
If the value is not to be refolded, the lines are rejoined using the linesep from the policy and returned.
Attributes: - consumed: total number of to be consumed bytes.
Python interface for the 'lsprof' profiler.
PurePath subclass that can make system calls.
Just to be sure, SimpleCookie invokes the str() builtin to convert the value to a string, when the values are set dictionary-style.
The computation is designed to avoid computing large powers of 10 unnecessarily.
Adapts the decompressor API to a RawIOBase reader API
Returns the number closest to self, in the direction towards other.
Return a list of all object files and a dictionary telling which source files can be skipped.
bogus base64 or uuencoded data), the payload is returned as-is.
But its caller is still cancelled, so the yield-from expression still raises CancelledError.
Process a GNU sparse header plus extra headers.
Check if this path is a POSIX mount point
Construct a datetime from time.time() and optional time zone info.
Since it is the responsibility of the application (or the user) to enable this feature, I consider this an acceptable risk.
RFC 6125 explicitly doesn't define an algorithm for this (section 1.7.2 - "Out of Scope").
Register a virtual subclass of an ABC.
mode can be "r" for reading (default), "w" for (over)writing, "x" for creating exclusively, or "a" for appending.
This method is deprecated, use the daemon attribute instead.
Columns are separated by two spaces (one was not legible enough).
Returns the number of bytes written, which may be less than the length of b in bytes.
Choose a random element from a non-empty sequence.
This function turns a run of qcontent, ccontent-without-comments, or dtext-with-quoted-printables into a single string by unquoting any quoted printables.
A file appears to have an invalid format.
This exception is raised when an unpicklable object is passed to the dump() method.
These exceptions are generated in some instances when the SMTP server returns an error code.
Values are automatically converted to strings.
Reads the metadata values from a file object.
Construct a date from a proleptic Gregorian ordinal.
Tidy up any resources used by the handler.
Extract, format and print information about Python stack traces.
Sets the StreamHandler's stream to the specified value, if it is different.
optparse reformats this paragraph to fit the current terminal width and prints it when the user requests help (after usage, but before the list of options).
Copy file from one FTP-instance to another.
Mark up some plain text, given a context of symbols to look for.
Terminate process; sends SIGTERM signal or uses TerminateProcess()
Shutdown the manager process; will be registered as a finalizer
If the optional flag quote is true (the default), the quotation mark characters, both double quote (") and single quote (') characters are also translated.
Optional method returning a metadata dict for the specified path (a str).
Return the current Thread object, corresponding to the caller's thread of control.
Return a pair of lists (sources, targets) where source is newer than target, according to the semantics of 'newer()'.
:copyright: Copyright 2008 by Armin Ronacher.
The diagnostic messages are written to standard output using the print statement.
Read the ZIP64 end-of-archive records and use that to update endrec
Registers a function to respond to XML-RPC requests.
Raises ImportError if the module cannot be found.
Constants and membership tests for ASCII characters
Describe the usual properties of Excel-generated TAB-delimited files.
Python 3.7 updates from using RFC 2396 to RFC 3986 to quote URL strings.
Encode the bytes-like object s using Base64 and return a bytes object.
Inspects the options to load the requested patterns and handlers.
Raised when a section is repeated in an input source.
Patch a dictionary, or dictionary like object, and restore the dictionary to its original state after the test.
Instance attributes: usage : string a usage string for your program.
Return a formatted year as a complete HTML page.
Return a month name as a table row.
A tuple of seven things is returned: (args, varargs, varkw, defaults, kwonlyargs, kwonlydefaults, annotations).
The reader returned is a StreamReader instance; the writer is a StreamWriter instance.
SMTPRecipientsRefused The server rejected ALL recipients (no mail was sent).
Internal implementation of wait() on POSIX.
The underlying mappings are stored in a list.
Wraps possible unpickleable errors, so they can be safely sent through the socket.
There is no return value in this case.
When called as a script with arguments, this compiles the directories given as arguments recursively; the -l option prevents it from recursing into directories.
Implements (a subset of) Sun XDR -- eXternal Data Representation.
Retrieve the certificate from the server at the specified address, and return it as a PEM-encoded string.
At least one of fileobj and filename must be given a non-trivial value.
Use this function to calculate the variance from the entire population.
If no fields exist with the given name, returns an empty list.
Process an extended or global header as described in POSIX.1-2008.
If 'text' is specified and true, the file is opened in text mode.
Asynchronous generator functions are defined with "async def" syntax and have "yield" expressions in their body.
The default is None, and is recommended; the underlying SequenceMatcher class has an adaptive notion of "noise" lines.
Alias for output attribute, to match stderr
Collect protocol members from a protocol class objects.
Any error in that 'options' attribute raises DistutilsGetoptError; any error on the command-line raises DistutilsArgError.
Override it if you have specific logging wishes.
Returns a list of file-based module loaders.
Note that you could specify a stream created using open(filename, mode) rather than passing the filename and mode in.
Output is also codec dependent and will usually be Unicode as well.
Holds the mapping of arguments to the function's parameters.
Clear the caches (for debugging or testing).
If necessary (the string contains any non-printing characters or white-space and isn't enclosed with either parentheses or double quotes) each string is quoted.
Return the command object for 'command'.
Optional args lo (default 0) and hi (default len(a)) bound the slice of a to be searched.
newline is a string controlling how universal newlines works (it only applies to text mode).
Return internal state; can be passed to setstate() later.
The class saves cookies using the Netscape header by default (Mozilla can cope with that).
On the other hand, if you are building e.g.
This is called when a request cannot be fulfilled.
Not all of the mapping methods are implemented.
Return a hash object for the current state.
The check here is done in case someone does not think about doing this.
Quantize self so its exponent is the same as that of exp.
A list of files built by on exploring the filesystem and filtered by applying various patterns to what we find there.
Remove current thread from the dict of currently running threads.
Only changes the repr(), leaving str() and format() to the mixed-in type.
A base class for loggers and handlers which allows them to share common code.
If no argument is given: return current speed.
This runs faster than the mean() function and it always returns a float.
This allows Python code to play nicely with non-filesystem based PEP 302 importers when locating support scripts as well as when importing modules.
Return the docstring for the given node or None if no docstring can be found.
Test results are automatically managed by the TestCase and TestSuite classes, and do not need to be explicitly manipulated by writers of tests.
Accepts a str path and data as bytes.
The header will be re-written in place without the parameter or its value.
Implementing this method allows the loader to read bytecode files.
Returns a tuple of strings (lib,version) which default to the given parameters in case the lookup fails.
communicate() returns a tuple (stdout, stderr).
Returns the final component of a pathname
The event loop must not be running.
Return True if the transport is receiving.
This method will try to establish the endpoint in the background.
I.e., you have a negative prefix length.
This exception is raised when there is a problem unpickling an object, such as a security violation.
True if the path is absolute (has both a root and, if applicable, a drive).
There's no point deleting them as other threads may continue to hold references to them; and by disabling them, you stop them doing any logging.
The decorator assumes that the decorated function takes the module name as the second argument.
The IncompleteReadError.partial attribute of the exception will contain the partial read bytes.
If the header occurs multiple times, all occurrences are returned.
Return the data for the specified year ready for formatting (similar to yeardatescalendar()).
May be useful for turtle graphics programs also.
Interactions with the file system are cached for performance, being refreshed when the directory the finder is handling has been modified.
Split a name longer than 100 chars into a prefix and a name part.
Measures the agreement between two normal probability distributions.
Inplace intersection is the minimum of corresponding counts.
Reads the robots.txt URL and feeds it to the parser.
Return the compiler option to add 'dir' to the list of directories searched for runtime libraries.
Shuffle list x in place, and return None.
You can specify particular values of maxBytes and backupCount to allow the file to rollover at a predetermined size.
Loggers and Handlers can optionally use Filter instances to filter records as desired.
It also does some reordering of the information in some cases where it would otherwise cause confusion.
The test code is run in such a way that errors are not caught.
Precedence table that originated from python grammar.
SECURITY WARNING: DON'T USE THIS CODE UNLESS YOU ARE INSIDE A FIREWALL -- it may execute arbitrary Python code or external programs.
Simple XML-RPC server that allows functions and a single instance to be installed to handle requests.
Without expression, list all display expressions for the current frame.
Connection class based on a Windows named pipe.
Configuration functions for the logging package for Python.
a chunk is either all whitespace or a "word".
Check whether this is a fake forked process in a frozen executable.
Shouldn't be used outside of gzip.py, as it lacks essential functionality.
Return the portion of the file's mode that describes the file type.
Return a random URL-safe text string, in Base64 encoding.
This class doesn't do any formatting.
Compare the two non-NaN decimal instances self and other.
Fill raw queue from exactly one recv() system call.
Parses a string as locale number according to the locale settings.
Return text item and x-coord of right bottom corner of text's bounding box.
Looks for text enclosed between two identical quotes (the probable quotechar) which are preceded and followed by the same character (the probable delimiter).
Allows an authorised administrator to proxy into any user's mailbox.
Clear the list of warning filters, so that no filters are active.
To port turtle.py to some different graphics toolkit a corresponding TurtleScreenBase class has to be implemented.
By default, these paths are relative to the calling module's directory; but if the "package" argument is specified, then they are relative to that package.
When invoked on an unlocked lock, a RuntimeError is raised.
"abort" exceptions imply the connection should be reset, and the command re-tried.
callback: An optional single parameter callable that is called for each line with the trailing CRLF stripped.
If the body is None, we set Content-Length: 0 for methods that expect a body (RFC 7230, Section 3.3.2).
Returns a ctypes object allocated from shared memory
Set the list of library search directories to 'dirs' (a list of strings).
Python part of the warnings subsystem.
globals and locals are passed in to eval(); see the documentation for eval() for more information.
If a file is specified, it will delegate to the original warnings implementation of showwarning.
Abstract base class for loaders which support inspection about the modules they can load.
The thread will terminate if it sees a sentinel object in the queue.
The "os.path" name is an alias for this module on Posix systems; on other systems (e.g.
Print exception up to 'limit' stack trace entries from 'tb' to 'file'.
Insert key with a value of default if key is not in the dictionary.
Optional argument x controls seeding, as for Random.seed().
Controller for the KDE File Manager (kfm, or Konqueror).
The terminating newline (if present) is retained.
If host is not specified, '' (the local host) is used.
Lookups search the underlying mappings successively until a key is found.
LMTP - Local Mail Transfer Protocol The LMTP protocol, which is very similar to ESMTP, is heavily based on the standard SMTP client.
A list of space separated tokens are parsed as if they were separated by ";".
A subclass of the module type which triggers loading upon attribute access.
The file is searched for on sys.path; the .py suffix may be omitted.
Resets the codec buffers used for keeping state.
Return a list of records for the stack below the current exception.
A test runner class that displays results in textual form.
Return None as built-in modules do not have source code.
This raises ValueError in release() if it would increase the value above the initial value.
Else (the pickle doesn't have a tell(), and it's not obvious how to query its current position) pos is None.
If not available, an empty string is returned.
Return True if the transport is closing or closed.
If that fails it falls back to the VS90COMNTOOLS env var.
Return true if the object is a method descriptor.
errors is an optional string that specifies how encoding errors are to be handled---this argument should not be used in binary mode.
This can be used to avoid creating references that will cause the garbage collector to keep the keys around longer than needed.
They are responsible for converting a LogRecord to (usually) a string which can be interpreted by either a human or an external system.
This also increases the task's count of cancellation requests.
If tarinfo is given, it is used as the starting point.
tokenize(readline) is a generator that breaks a stream of bytes into Python tokens.
We also set the Content-Length for any method if the body is a str or bytes-like object and not a file.
Return a list of namespaces bound to this name
When called without arguments, create an unconnected instance.
Ctrl-P Cursor up; move up one line.
If the invocant does not have a next sibling, it is None
This will always return false for Windows prior to 6.0.
Turns backslash and double quote characters into quoted pairs.
Typed version of the return of open() in binary mode.
If strict is true, use a strict parser which rejects malformed inputs.
The first sequence to be compared is not changed.
The opener will use several default handlers, including support for HTTP, FTP and when applicable HTTPS.
Get the one-line summary out of a module file.
Return the filename for the specified module or raise ZipImportError if it couldn't be imported.
Disassembler of Python byte code into mnemonics.
Test whether a path is a symbolic link.
Return value is a list of strings giving the possible filename extensions, including the leading dot ('.').
Send a handle over a local connection.
JPEG data with JFIF or Exif markers; and raw JPEG
A common base class for the other pickling exceptions.
Return a JSON representation of a Python string
Initialize the logger with the name "root".
If "package" is not specified, then the calling module's directory is used as the base directory for module relative filenames.
Method which returns the code object for the module.
List mailbox names in directory matching pattern.
Coroutines will be wrapped in Tasks.
'250', or such, if all goes well) Note: returns -1 if it can't read response code.
The flag argument, used to control how the database is opened in the other DBM implementations, supports only the semantics of 'c' and 'n' values.
On a POSIX system, instantiating a Path should return this object.
The pattern may contain simple shell-style wildcards a la fnmatch.
Or if the network has host bits set.
Authobject to use with PLAIN authentication.
Multiple threads may be given the same name.
This argument can only be used when opening a file for writing.
As with TestCase, the tidy-up ('tearDown') function will always be called if the set-up ('setUp') function ran successfully.
Error 308 -- relocated, but turn POST into error.
Where the implementation requires a somewhat different structure than that used by the formal grammar, new terms that mimic the closest existing terms are used.
Find the next frame that doesn't involve CPython internals.
Tries to determine the libc version that the file executable (which defaults to the Python interpreter) is linked against.
Python.h and so on; otherwise, this is the path to platform-specific header files (namely pyconfig.h).
If not available, also search for a file (or link) with a .so suffix.
Return true if the object is a data descriptor.
This is necessary to initialize each thread's dictionary.
Return the keyed message, or default if it doesn't exist.
A read-only wrapper of part of a file.
Use this metaclass to create an ABC.
curses The main package for curses support for Python.
Help message formatter which retains formatting of all help text.
The other Future may be a concurrent.futures.Future.
Return the single namespace bound to this name.
Describe the usual properties of Excel-generated CSV files.
You may want to override this method if you want to use blocking, timeouts or custom queue implementations.
Produce text documentation for a function or method object.
entry is processed by a RequestHandlerClass.
Otherwise, when nothing matches, return (-1, None, text) where text is the text received so far (may be the empty string if a timeout happened).
All other methods for turtle movement depend on this one.
If neither tool is available, raises DistutilsExecError.
Can raise OSError for non seekable files.
Other policies may have different rules (e.g.
When all tests have been added, the suite can be passed to a test runner, such as TextTestRunner.
"readonly" exceptions imply the command should be re-tried.
Finally, StringIO is an in-memory stream for text.
If a host is specified the connect method is called, and if it returns anything other than a success code an SMTPConnectError is raised.
Where possible deviations from the standard are annotated on the 'defects' attribute of tokens that deviate.
The TarFile Class provides an interface to tar archives.
If the event is not in the queue, this raises ValueError.
This method is commonly used for 8-bit real names in To:, From:, Cc:, etc.
Create a file if it doesn't exist and open for reading and writing.
When the extension is already known, the new type will replace the old one.
errors defines the error handling to apply.
In write-mode, two finishing zero blocks are appended to the archive.
flags is a bitmask for getaddrinfo().
Map character sets to their email properties.
This is a subset of the full ElementTree XML release.
If the path representation is not str or bytes, TypeError is raised.
Report that the test runner is about to process the given example.
A sequence of this path's logical parents.
A package for parsing, handling, and generating email messages.
Return a new path with the file suffix changed.
Setting terse to true causes the function to return only the absolute minimum information needed to identify the platform.
Only one instance can be installed at a time.
GetPassWarning: When we were unable to turn echo off on the input.
Return the integer ratio as a tuple.
Files and subdirectories starting with '.' are skipped.
Random number generator base class used by bound module functions.
Add label to list of labels on the message.
Arguments: fun -- a function with two arguments, to which will be assigned the coordinates of the clicked point on the canvas.
Return the square root of the sample variance.
Returns an object with a file-like interface; the name of the file is accessible as its 'name' attribute.
Returns prefix of command line used for spawning a child process
Return whether the file supports seeking.
Doctests can currently be extracted from the following object types: modules, functions, classes, methods, staticmethods, classmethods, and properties.
XXX This should go to the separate error log.
In the last case, it is assumed to already be in the correct format.
The policy keyword specifies a policy object that controls a number of aspects of the parser's operation.
This module provides socket operations and some related functions.
Thread module emulating a subset of Java's threading model.
Return items in minuend not in subtrahend, retaining order with O(1) lookup.
If invoked using the Python -m option, the default is to use copying on Windows platforms but symlinks elsewhere.
Otherwise returns the sentinel value dis.UNKNOWN for the value and an empty string for its repr.
Members of the population need not be hashable or unique.
Raises ValueError if called more times than there were items placed in the queue.
Initialize the instance with the host, the request URL, and the method ("GET" or "POST")
Do our best to decode a Python source file correctly.
Try to apply the pattern at the start of the string, returning a Match object, or None if no match was found.
Arrange for a callback to be called as soon as possible.
The file contents, owner, and group are unaffected.
A tuple of four things is returned: (args, varargs, varkw, locals).
Encode bytes-like object s using the standard Base64 alphabet.
Base16, Base32, Base64 (RFC 3548), Base85 and Ascii85 data encodings
Exception raised when an error occurs while attempting to compile the file.
Scan through string looking for a match to the pattern, returning a Match object, or None if no match was found.
Consumers that can rely on Python 3.11 should use the other module directly.
An RFC 5321 smtp proxy with optional RFC 1870 and RFC 6531 extensions.
Each string ends in a newline; the strings may contain internal newlines as well, for those items whose source text line is not None.
On platforms that have the notion of a command-line (e.g.
Return value is either a file object, or None (indicating an error).
Returns the remainder from integer division.
Escape any invalid characters in HTTP URL, and uppercase all escapes.
Return string representation of Cookie in the LWP cookie file format.
A string used for identification purposes only.
Its file information is extracted as accurately as possible.
Size defaults to the current file position, as returned by tell().
If not provided, it will return the default scheme for the current platform.
If the future's result isn't yet available, raises InvalidStateError.
Compress data in one shot and return the compressed string.
Return the time part, with same tzinfo.
They use the complete set of APIs returned by the codecs.lookup() function to implement their task.
If the first element of pair is false, then the second element is returned unmodified.
Return a new socket representing the connection, and the address of the client.
Add a handler to the internal cleanup list using a weak reference.
If EOF is read and no text was read, raise EOFError.
To reduce the build time, only files modified since the last invocation of this function should be passed in the files argument.
Return list of fds inherited from parent process.
Valid attributes are: delimiter, quotechar, escapechar, doublequote, skipinitialspace, lineterminator, quoting.
The return value is a Server object, which can be used to stop the service.
Create a new DocTest containing the given examples.
Run code specified by data received over pipe
Hook called on a filename to be sourced.
Open the ZIP file with mode read 'r', write 'w', exclusive create 'x', or append 'a'.
Raise DistutilsFileError if unable to create some directory along the way (eg.
Spawn a new thread to serve this connection
The function translate(PATTERN) returns a regular expression corresponding to PATTERN.
By default, wake up one coroutine waiting on this condition, if any.
Captures all of the information in the underlying representation.
Cancel the future and schedule callbacks.
Class for all browsers which are to be started in the background.
tree - the root node of the tree to be processed.
PlaceHolder instances are used in the Manager logger hierarchy to take the place of nodes for which no loggers have been defined.
Run command with arguments and return a CompletedProcess instance.
By default, all communication is in bytes, and therefore any "input" should be bytes, and the (stdout, stderr) will be bytes.
This method returns an instance of StatsProfile, which contains a mapping of function names to instances of FunctionProfile.
Error 301 -- also relocated (permanently).
The constructor creates a BufferedWriter for the given writeable raw stream.
Called when the low-level connection is made.
Simple textbox editing widget with Emacs-like keybindings.
Returns a list of (n - 1) cut points separating the intervals.
Reload the file data of the archive path.
Return a string representing time in seconds since epoch, t.
The higher the protocol used, the more recent the version of Python needed to read the pickle produced.
Quoted pairs are converted to their unquoted values, so what is returned is a ptext token, in this case a ValueTerminal.
Return the file system path representation of the object.
Adds the supplied shared memory block name to tracker.
If resizemode is set to "auto" and turtleshape is a polygon, that polygon is drawn with the same line thickness.
First, sys.modules is checked to see if the module was already imported.
Print the message object tree rooted at msg to the output file specified when the Generator instance was created.
Blocks until the loop has finished.
The basic idea is to find the longest contiguous matching subsequence that contains no "junk" elements (R-O doesn't address junk).
Note that the search function normalizes the encoding names before doing the lookup, so the mapping will have to map normalized encoding names to module names.
Convert doctest tests for a module to a unittest test suite.
The pre-release tag consists of the letter 'a' or 'b' followed by a number.
By default, the test code itself should be placed in a method named 'runTest'.
When no match is found, return whatever is available instead, possibly the empty string.
A simple log mechanism styled after PEP 282.
In the above example, the add method takes two integers as arguments and returns a double result.
This lets the parser adhere to a simple abstraction -- it parses until EOF closes the current message.
It is possible that the last line of a file doesn't end in a newline character; otherwise lines are returned including the trailing newline.
This function takes one of those sequence of pairs and returns a Header instance.
Return the file or directory's destination.
Manages one or more shared memory segments.
An optional method for clearing the finder's cache, if any.
It's common to use Unix sockets for LMTP, so our connect() method must support that as well as a regular host:port server.
base64 encoded sequence had characters not in base64 alphabet
Set or return the current tilt-angle.
Determine if a record is loggable by consulting all the filters.
On POSIX, NamedTemporaryFiles cannot be automatically deleted if the creating process is terminated abruptly with a SIGKILL signal.
Message types (handshake protocol) See RFC 8446, section B.3
Temporarily replace a module in sys.modules with an empty namespace
Return the height of the turtle window.
The 'level' argument represents the package location to import from in a relative import (e.g.
Return the current date and time formatted for a message header.
If extent is not given, draw the entire circle.
Aliasing is recursively applied to the first word of the command line; all other words in the line are left alone.
Entries which cannot be determined are set to the parameter values which default to ''.
Quote a subset of the email addresses defined by RFC 821.
Get current state of a coroutine object.
Futures that aren't done when the timeout occurs are returned in the second set.
Remove sequence from the list of sequences including the message.
The basic type used for binary data read from or written to a file is bytes.
On other platforms, consult the implementation class documentation.
Both conversion and comparisons are exact.
If the caller's thread of control was not created through the threading module, a dummy thread object with limited functionality is returned.
If shouldFlush() tells us to, call flush() to process the buffer.
Start a socket server, call back for each client connected.
dicts, lists and tuples are replaced by their converting alternatives.
The default configuration mimics the appearance of the old turtle module.
Create a mock object using another object as a spec.
Return b'' if no cooked data available otherwise.
Returns an empty bytes array on EOF.
The resulting XML-RPC response is printed to stdout along with the correct HTTP headers.
Returns: A boolean, True if the address is a multicast address.
A powerful, extensible, and easy-to-use option parser.
A handler class which writes formatted logging records to disk files.
Start an HTTP server thread on a specific port.
Always returns at least one byte of data, unless at EOF.
An example of this format is: 1994-11-24 08:49:37Z
In some cases, the HTTP server redirects a client to another URL.
Details: - The arguments must be types and there must be at least one.
Truncate size to pos, where pos is an int.
The IncrementalEncoder remembers the state of the encoding process between calls to encode().
If this is successful, the test file is deleted.
Both are restored to their original values before the function returns.
"Executable documentation" for the pickle module.
Handler for logging to a file, rotating the log file at certain timed intervals.
This is always true in email parsing, and allows us to skip invalid addresses to parse additional valid ones.
Assert the mock has ever been awaited with the specified arguments.
This is especially fast and space efficient for sampling from a large population: sample(range(10000000), 60)
Otherwise, all such characters are escaped in JSON strings.
Optional charset, if given, should be a Charset instance or the name of a character set (which will be converted to a Charset instance).
This policy adds new header parsing and folding algorithms.
If the wait is cancelled, the task is also cancelled.
For a complete description of the arguments see the Python documentation.
Works like mkdir, except that any intermediate path segment (not just the rightmost) will be created if it does not exist.
Note that if a utf-8 bom is found, 'utf-8-sig' is returned.
Note that decimal places (from zero) are usually not the same as significant digits (measured from the most significant digit).
The optional 'block' and 'timeout' arguments are ignored, as this method never blocks.
Object for parsing command line strings into Python objects.
The source code is returned as a single string.
The original COFF (Common Object File Format) was the base of SVR3 and BSD 4.2 systems.
Return the number of bytes that can be read immediately.
Return a line number of the given object's docstring.
Return the next item from the generator.
FeedParser.feed() is the primary interface for pushing new data into the parser.
Extract the raw traceback from the current stack frame.
After this the finalizer is dead, and calling it just returns None.
Defines which cookies get accepted from and returned to server.
assert that the mock was called at least once
Return the event category for the record.
Repeated elements can be specified one at a time or with the optional counts parameter.
Return whether this finalizer is still waiting to invoke callback
A recursive lock implementation which is able to detect deadlocks (e.g.
Special type indicating an unconstrained type.
Sets the packing format and back transformation code for a single value in the list at the specified position.
Fallback defaults to (80, 24) which is the default size used by many terminal emulators.
True if string s is not a ctext character of RFC822.
Any fields deleted and re-inserted are always appended to the header list.
Returns True if arm64 builds are supported on this system
Subset of importlib.abc used to reduce importlib.util imports.
Since an application can have any number of areas, logging channels are identified by a unique string.
Base class for request handler classes.
Enter the watcher's context and allow starting new processes This function must return self
Interpret the argument as though it had been typed in response to the prompt.
Set the list of sequences that include the message.
Like the Generator base class, except that non-text parts are substituted with a format string representing the part.
Connect manager object to the server process
Add the response header to the headers buffer and log the response code.
Delegate an exception call to the underlying logger.
True is the default, and makes all items defined in the class body be required.
Information about a single frame from a traceback.
Return a tuple of methods declared in the class.
Indicates that an invalid value was used as a mock spec.
Try to find out the versions of gcc, ld and dllwrap.
If path is omitted or None, search for a built-in, frozen or special module and continue search in sys.path.
The module is not entered into sys.modules.
The default is to print a traceback and continue.
String that doesn't quote its repr.
Check if child process has terminated.
A primitive lock is a synchronization primitive that is not owned by a particular coroutine when locked.
Create an invisible polygon item on canvas self.cv)
It also provides methods that create and return Proxy Objects that support synchronization across processes (i.e.
Return the socket object used internally.
Return True if the Tarinfo object is a regular file.
Format the specified records and return the result as a string.
OS-specific conversion from a file system path to a relative URL of the 'file' scheme; not recommended for general use.
Return a plain text document describing a given traceback.
It looks for a specific node type (token or symbol), and optionally for a specific content.
For svr4 either only one ABI is supported, or there are two directories, or there are different file names.
The'path' argument should be where the data was retrieved (when applicable).
assert that the last call was made with the specified arguments.
This is slightly faster than the normalvariate() function.
Exponent of a 0 changed to fit bounds.
Construct and return tuple with IO objects: p2cread, p2cwrite, c2pread, c2pwrite, errread, errwrite
Returns: If the IPv6 address is a v4 mapped address, return the IPv4 mapped address.
If no section is present, raise KeyError.
Authentication command - requires response processing.
Internal: send a command and get the response.
This method must be implemented by all command classes.
You can behave differently (for example, reject unauthorized requests) by overriding this method.
Move an existing element to the end (or beginning if last is false).
Print a table of contents for the zip file.
The IncrementalDecoder may use different error handling schemes by providing the errors keyword argument.
Writes the object's contents encoded to self.stream.
When the user enters the EOF key sequence, EOFError is raised.
Subclasses must override the tzname(), utcoffset() and dst() methods.
Return delivery date of message, in seconds since the epoch.
This function is used recursively to handle the second part of the split line to further split it.
Release a semaphore, incrementing the internal counter by one or more.
Invoke user function and return trace function for exception event.
None or 0 means no line wrapping is done.
This version is intended to be implemented by subclasses and so raises a NotImplementedError.
Unpacks various data representations from the given buffer.
Return a formatted month as a table.
Call this method when its future has been cancelled.
rcpttos is a list of raw addresses the client wishes to deliver the message to.
The callable object 'func' is then passed the main window 'stdscr' as its first argument, followed by any other arguments passed to wrapper().
If you get unexpected NNTPPermanentErrors, you might need to set readermode.
encoding An encoding that will be used to convert the files to unicode.
Add the specified handler to this logger.
Encode bytes-like object b using Ascii85 and return a bytes object.
True if the file is connected to a TTY device.
errors is passed through to the .append() call.
The values represent a fair balance between maximum compatibility and security.
Helper to run code in new namespace with sys modified
A base for proxies of shared objects
If not possible, then open url in the only browser window.
Implements equality by attribute names and values, and provides a simple string representation.
When all frames have been written, either call writeframes(b'') or close() to patch up the sizes in the header.
Encode string according to RFC 2231.
Set default password for encrypted files.
McCahill, December 1994 RFC 3986 is considered the current standard and any future changes to urlparse module should conform with it.
sock can optionally be specified in order to use a preexisting socket object.
If either operand is a special value then the general rules apply.
Define the executables (and options for them) that will be run to perform the various stages of compilation.
Acquire the module-level lock for serializing access to shared data.
These will be sorted in the order they appeared in the original message, or were added to the message, and may contain duplicates.
Returns the number of uncompressed bytes written, which is always the length of data in bytes.
Generate Iterator over usable hosts in a network.
No feature line is ever to be deleted from this file.
Convert a time string to a time tuple.
A binascii.Error is raised if s is incorrectly padded.
'policy' is passed to the BytesGenerator instance used to serialize the message; if not specified the policy associated with the message instance is used.
Note that the names in the lists are just names, with no path components.
Both FILENAME and PATTERN are first case-normalized if the operating system requires it.
Execute the spec's specified module in an existing module's namespace.
X VERBOSE Ignore whitespace and comments for nicer looking RE's.
Also send two standard headers with the server software version and the current date.
Otherwise the tree is traversed node-to-node for matches.
Lookup up the codec for the given encoding and return its IncrementalDecoder class or factory function.
Create a new directory at this given path.
Return true if the object is a coroutine function.
Return a list of sequences that include the message.
For security purposes, the default is False.
Return the entire formatted message as a string.
Like itermonthdates(), but will yield (day number, weekday number) tuples.
A task will be marked as cancelled when the wrapped coroutine terminates with a CancelledError exception (even if cancel() was not called).
Raises: ValueError: The address is bigger than 128 bits of all ones.
Close the current file and forget everything we know about it (filename, current line number).
If ndigits is omitted or None, returns an Integral, otherwise returns a Real.
Parse addr into its constituent realname and email address parts.
Delete the turtle's drawings from the screen, re-center the turtle and set variables to the default values.
A handler class which buffers logging records in memory, periodically flushing them to a target handler.
The structure of the header is as follows.
The implementation here raises NotImplemented for every method except writelines(), which calls write() in a loop.
If 'optimization' is not None, the string representation of the argument is taken and verified to be alphanumeric (else ValueError is raised).
Read at most size bytes, returned as bytes.
This method implements the to-number operation of the IBM Decimal specification.
It defaults to octal code 0o666 (and will be modified by the prevailing umask).
Assert the mock has been awaited with the specified calls.
Return the (name, value) header pairs without modification.
This doesn't close the underlying socket, except if all references to it have disappeared.
Run custom site specific code, if available.
If the string contains no timezone, UTC is assumed.
Return whether the event loop is currently running.
Like os.pipe() but with overlapped support and using handles not fds.
binary, which is pervasive in the interface; however we currently do not offer a way to track the other distinctions in the type system.
Write the PKG-INFO format data to a file object.
Skip white space and extract comments.
Delete temporary breakpoints if effective() says to.
This may result in a slightly different, but equivalent URL, if the URL that was parsed originally had redundant delimiters, e.g.
Format a list of items into a multi-column list.
Convert an IPv6 hextet string into an integer.
Abstract method which should return the source code for the module.
If not, a hint is issued and the dialog remains open for correction.
Process a GNU tar extended sparse header, version 1.0.
class: ConfigParser -- responsible for parsing a list of configuration files, and managing the parsed database.
Dict subclass for counting hashable items.
-- are attributes of the compiler instance.
Returns true the line just read is the first line of its file, otherwise returns false.
If "aliased" is true, the function will use aliases for various platforms that report system names which differ from their common names, e.g.
Return the next member of the archive as a TarInfo object, when TarFile is opened for reading.
Read at most size bytes from the chunk.
Return a header quoted-printable encoding length.
Test whether a file-like object is a text or a binary stream.
If the formatting type is omitted it defaults to 'g' or 'G', depending on the value of context.capitals.
If no group matches, return an empty string.
Return the loader for the specified module.
if optional encoding endings or state markers are available on the stream, these should be read too.
This module is safe to use in "from ...
A node may be a subnode of at most one parent.
Return the last access time of a file, reported by os.stat().
Real also provides defaults for the derived operations.
self), so that a non-multipart message will still return a list of length 1.
'kwonlyargs' is a list of keyword-only parameter names.
The callback is called with a single argument - the future object.
Set up host and port for HTTP CONNECT tunnelling.
We allow that a user-agent: line is not preceded by one or more blank lines.
This calendar returns complete HTML pages.
Return the object as a ustar header block.
common: a list of names in both dir1 and dir2.
The operation is not affected by the context.
First argument is self, second is the context.
Base class for handlers that rotate log files at a certain point.
An update to this copy won't affect the original object.
(Note: None can occur as a field name.) The items are either a Python list (if there's multiple values) or another FieldStorage or MiniFieldStorage object.
At runtime, the function prints the runtime type of the argument and returns the argument unchanged.
Utility functions for copying and archiving files and directory trees.
Run a coroutine inside the embedded event loop.
If False, seek(), tell() and truncate() will raise OSError.
Split the source string by the occurrences of the pattern, returning a list containing the resulting substrings.
A pathlib-compatible interface for zip files.
The input can be passed piece by piece to the encode() method.
If EOF was received and the internal buffer is empty, return an empty bytes object.
Return a commented form of the given line
Get the mapping of generator local variables to their current values.
Ensure that children of the placeholder ph are connected to the specified logger.
Convert sys.path into a list of absolute, existing, unique paths.
- choices -- A container of values that should be allowed.
This function should not be called directly but instead called from the Connection method, iterdump().
Isolate change clusters by eliminating ranges with no changes.
This method should raise ImportError if anything prevents it from creating a new module.
Return the hash value of this hashing object.
This does not yield minimal edit sequences, but does tend to yield matches that "look right" to people.
Resets the codec buffers used for keeping internal state.
The machinery of importlib: finders, loaders, hooks, etc.
Sometimes it would be convenient to use a user-defined boolean function as a type guard.
Arguments: year, month, day (required, base 1)
last: the last IPv4Address or IPv6Address in the range.
This can be used to use another datatype or parser for JSON floats (e.g.
To deal with the various line wrapping issues, use the email.header module.
Output from successful command execution or None
The exact number of bytes returned is unspecified.
This starts up a background thread to monitor the queue for LogRecords to process.
Also wrap strings into ForwardRef instances.
If limit is reached, ValueError will be raised.
Return whether the file was opened for reading.
Return an iterator over (key, message) tuples.
It defaults to None, in which case filename is opened to provide a file object.
This occurs and signals invalid-operation if a string is being converted to a number and it does not conform to the numeric string syntax.
Raises a to the power of b, to modulo if given.
which one it is an unambiguous abbreviation for.
If the XML-RPC packet represents a fault condition, this function raises a Fault exception.
Raised by strict parsers when an option is repeated in an input source.
Returns a list of supported formats for archiving and unarchiving.
Returns a list of strings ready for printing.
Return a named tuple containing ISO year, week number, and weekday.
If there is a backup count, then we have to get a list of matching filenames, sort them and remove the one with the oldest suffix.
From the other parameters the number of frames can be calculated.
If 0, printed as 1e1 clamp - If 1, change exponents if too high (Default 0)
If a class doesn't have its own annotations dict, returns an empty dict.
A pointless class, for sanity-checking of docstring testing.
The locale encoding is used to decode the output and process newlines.
Useful for raising exceptions or dynamically changing return values.
Iterates over the results of a multicall.
Common setup sequence for all user-callable interfaces.
Asynchronous context manager for managing groups of tasks.
data Raw, decrypted message content as bytes
The conditional expression here is sometimes referred to as a "type guard".
args: optional; a list of command line arguments.
Get a list of records for a traceback's frame and all lower frames.
Special typing construct to mark a TypedDict key as potentially missing.
This may result in 0 with the sign of the intermediate result and an exponent of Etiny.
THIS FUNCTION IS UNSAFE AND SHOULD NOT BE USED.
Return the line number in the current file.
Get fully qualified domain name from name.
So the resulting block never matches on junk except as identical junk happens to be adjacent to an "interesting" match.
As in UNIX, lower priority numbers mean higher priority; in this way the queue can be maintained as a priority queue.
If this is non-zero, each output line will be at most this many characters long.
- 0: the same browser window (the default).
RFC 2396: "Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI)": Generic Syntax by T.
Test whether a path is a mount point (a drive root, the root of a share, or a mounted volume)
To specify authentication credentials, supply a (username, password) tuple for the credentials argument.
Guess the extensions for a file based on its MIME type.
Optional argument: picname -- a string, name of a gif-file or "nopic".
Base class of common code needed by both SourceLoader and SourcelessFileLoader.
Check that the pipe has not been closed by sending a probe.
This is a descriptor, used to define attributes that act differently when accessed through an enum member and through an enum class.
Lines starting with 'import' are executed.
Abstract base class for loaders that wish to support the execution of modules as scripts.
Not everything the runtime allows may be accepted by static type checkers.
Each instance records a list of tuple-indices (from most significant to least significant), and sort direction (ascending or descending) for each tuple-index.
The language code corresponds to RFC 1766.
The arguments are the same as for the Popen constructor.
This function always creates a new event loop and closes it at the end.
Returns a tuple (bits, linkage) which contains information about the bit architecture and the linkage format used for the executable.
If none of the other commands print anything, you will see no sign that the breakpoint was reached.
If maxsize is less than or equal to zero, the queue size is infinite.
Subtract a NormalDist from a constant or another NormalDist.
If datefmt is omitted, you get an ISO8601-like (or RFC 3339-like) format.
If it was set via function name, check if this is the right function and if it is on the first executable line.
Functionally identical to the base Generator except that the output is bytes and not string.
Set background image or return name of current backgroundimage.
Function used for unpickling proxy objects.
Handles the Mingw32 port of the GNU C compiler to Windows.
Each row represents a week; days outside this month are zero.
If 'timeout' is a non-negative number, it blocks at most 'timeout' seconds and raises the Empty exception if no item was available within that time.
Set the main type and subtype for the Content-Type header.
Return a header for a week as a table row.
Setup connection to remote server on "host:port" (default: localhost:standard IMAP4 port).
Registers an arbitrary coroutine function and arguments.
See also the BaseHTTPServer module docs for other API information.
The optional arguments stdin and stdout specify alternate input and output file objects; if not specified, sys.stdin and sys.stdout are used.
Return the adjusted exponent of self
Called with the old version, new version, and filename of a refactored file.
The unidiff format normally has a header for filenames and modification times.
These are library names, not filenames, since they're translated into filenames in a platform-specific way (eg.
Return the shorthand version of the IP address as a string.
A handler class which buffers logging records in memory.
A host of '' or port 0 tells the OS to use the default.
Mixin to indicate that object should not be copied.
Cleanup items are called even if setUp fails (unlike tearDown).
On Posix OSs the function sends SIGKILL to the subprocess.
Simply use the continue command, or step, or any other command that resumes execution.
Resize the canvas the turtles are drawing on.
This class is used to register XML-RPC method handlers and then to dispatch them.
Values which cannot be determined are set to the defaults given as parameters (which all default to '').
Adds the supplied shared memory block name to Server's tracker.
Returns a set containing all available time zones.
The current payload will always be a list of objects after this method is called.
Invoking this method without arguments will clear all cookies.
filename - the name of the file the tree came from.
Checks proxy settings gathered from the environment, if specified, or the registry.
The base implementation writes to sys.stderr; a subclass may replace this with a different implementation.
Closely emulate the behavior of the interactive Python interpreter.
The OpenerDirector is a composite object that invokes the Handlers needed to open the requested URL.
This reproduces the input source exactly.
So in the instance given above, channel names might be "input" for the upper level, and "input.csv", "input.xls" and "input.gnu" for the sub-levels.
Write a simple gzip header with no extra fields.
Called after writing each message to file f.
This may be called from a different thread.
Return the number of tasks required to trip the barrier.
Any threads currently waiting will get the BrokenBarrier exception raised.
(The former two default to whatever is in the Distribution object, and the latter defaults to false for commands that don't define it.)
Produce HTML documentation for an XML-RPC server.
RFC 1808: "Relative Uniform Resource Locators", by R.
Splitchars does not affect RFC 2047 encoded lines.
Only enqueue the item if a free slot is immediately available.
Return the TurtleScreen object, the turtle is drawing on.
Returns a tuple of strings (system, node, release, version, machine, processor) identifying the underlying platform.
a is an initial approximation to the square root.
Otherwise, an ISO8601-like (or RFC 3339-like) format is used.
Variation from RFC: returned value is lowercased, for convenient comparison.
This passes most requests on to the underlying raw stream.
If policy is None, the default policy is restored.
Try to create a socket and, if it's not a datagram socket, connect it to the other end.
If the input value has a 'name' attribute and it matches the name ignoring case, the value is returned unchanged.
This is normally the base filename, e.g.
Pass the empty string to suppress printing an exit message.
The builtin open function is defined in this module.
Get transport for pipe with number fd.
Extract a member from the archive to the current working directory, using its full name.
A subclass should define class attributes with defaults for any values that are to be managed by the Policy object.
Return True if the filename does not refer to a file we want to have reported.
Return the string representation of the path, suitable for passing to system calls.
The default implementation attempts to dispatch XML-RPC calls to the functions or instance installed in the server.
Objects derived from this class monitor a collection of subprocesses and report their termination or interruption by a signal.
It controls the handling of line endings.
The tree is traversed from the bottom using the constructed automaton.
This stops execution of a turtle graphics script.
This mutates the function(s) or class(es) in place.
Returns True if semaphore cannot be acquired immediately.
If no such function exists then the call is forwarded to the registered instance, if available.
Internal: read lines until EOF or outerboundary.
Return the event type for the record.
Resolve host and port into list of address info entries.
The encoding gives the way in which audio samples are encoded.
Return True if mode is from a regular file.
Rescale self so that the exponent is exp, either by padding with zeros or by truncating digits, using the given rounding mode.
Divides two numbers and returns the integer part of the result.
HRESULT error values are automatically raised as OSError exceptions.
Abstract Base Classes (ABCs) according to PEP 3119.
Describe the usual properties of Unix-generated CSV files.
When a header line is longer (in characters, with tabs expanded to 8 spaces) than maxheaderlen, the header will split as defined in the Header class.
set number of 'degrees' for a full circle.
Insert an entry into the list of warnings filters (at the front).
Note that unlike the Python sys.version, the returned value will always include the patchlevel (it defaults to 0).
we stop processing options as soon as we see the first non-option argument.
Raise any exception triggered within the runtime context.
Return the list of turtles on the screen.
The function returns a binary string, which is the contents of the specified resource.
If length is None, copy the entire content.
Stop when the line with the lineno greater than the current one is reached or when returning from current frame.
Cleanup after any worker processes which have exited due to reaching their specified lifetime.
Return None if ':' but not a valid number.
It also sets the default character set for all subsequent .append() calls that omit the charset argument.
A selector matches a specific glob pattern part against the children of a given path.
If args or kwargs are empty then a call tuple will compare equal to a tuple without those values.
Read and decode a PyPI HTTP response.
Return a string indicating the HTTP request method.
The IncompleteReadError.partial attribute may contain the separator partially.
Remove the given parameter completely from the Content-Type header.
Get the documentation string for an object.
Issue a warning, or maybe ignore it or raise an exception.
Process a LIST or LIST ACTIVE command.
Move turtle to an absolute position.
Unset the given string flag(s) without changing others.
charset names the character set to use to encode the header.
This is the original interface, before Functions were added.
If debug is True, the event loop will be run in debug mode.
Used by the TestSuite to hold previous class when running in debug.
To use a shape, you have to issue the command shape(shapename).
Optional argument: fullcircle - a number Set angle measurement units, i.
If a tuple, then the first part is the header of the response, and the second part contains the data (ie: 'literal' value).
removedirs(name) Super-rmdir; remove a leaf directory and all empty intermediate ones.
If EHLO fails, HELO will be tried and ESMTP options suppressed.
Write a pickled representation of obj to the open file.
Returns: A boolean, True if the address is not reserved per iana-ipv4-special-registry or iana-ipv6-special-registry.
Optional atomends specifies a different set of end token delimiters (the default is to use self.atomends).
Free server's resources associated with the selected mailbox and returns the server to the authenticated state.
When supported by the runtime, this function can be hooked in order to allow embedders more control over code files.
A 'ptext' is a string of printable ascii characters.
Generator that returns the leaves of the tree
Get the complete domain name from an address.
Return the message ID for the event record.
Make sure that a fork server is running.
Return True for success, False for failure; on failure, any relevant error response has already been sent back.
Return True if self is nonzero; otherwise return False.
RFC 2732 : "Format for Literal IPv6 Addresses in URL's by R.Hinden, B.Carpenter and L.Masinter, December 1999.
Print out a help message listing all available commands with a description of each.
It is also safe if the event is never signalled (because it was cancelled).
The message indicating which exception occurred is always the last string in the output.
This class represents the Python library itself.
Process a GNU tar extended sparse header, version 0.0.
This class serves as an intermediate representation of the pattern tree during the conversion to sets of leaf-to-root subpatterns
Return prefix length from the bitwise netmask.
'name' should be a string, file, or file-like object.
Object returned by timed callback registration methods.
Raises SMTPServerDisconnected if end-of-file is reached.
Return the name of the file currently being read.
Return pretty representation of code flags.
a regular .py file), do the same but follow it with an implementation.
Additionally, all token lists start with an ENCODING token which tells you which encoding was used to decode the bytes stream.
If the file can't be opened, logging is silently disabled (since there is no safe place where we could send an error message).
Returns the base 10 logarithm of self.
seq2: The second sequence to compare.
Internal wrapper to hold a forward reference.
Should return a true or false object (not necessarily a bool).
:param text: The text in which to replace placeholder variables.
Note that if you don't call this before your application exits, there may be some records still left on the queue, which won't be processed.
Replacement for subprocess.Popen using overlapped pipe handles.
Parse and test package version predicates.
This class is public, so it can be imported by the application programmer, which makes certain types of computations very natural and compact.
The sign of the result, if non-zero, is the same as that of the original dividend.
Set a parameter in the Content-Type header.
For custom timer functions returning integers, timeunit can be a float specifying a scale (i.e.
A and B may be host domain names or IP addresses.
Return first matching header value for 'name', or 'value' If there is no header named 'name', add a new header with name 'name' and value 'value'.
See class docstring for a list of overridable attributes.
The urlopen() function handles this transparently, but in some cases the caller needs to know which URL the client was redirected to.
Read up to size bytes with at most one read() system call, where size is an int.
This is a backwards compatible interface to the InteractiveConsole class.
File-like object for reading an archive member.
Configured stream limit is used to check result.
Special typing construct to indicate final names to type checkers.
Raises a LookupError in case the encoding cannot be found or the codecs doesn't provide an incremental encoder.
Helper setting the result only if the future was not cancelled.
It is best to first set all parameters, perhaps possibly the compression type, and then write audio frames using writeframesraw.
Send a command, and return its response code.
This method is used both when an enum class is given a value to match to an enumeration member (i.e.
If specified, default is a function that gets called for objects that can't otherwise be serialized.
To specify an alternative list of filenames, pass it as the argument to input().
Debug a statement executed via the exec() function.
max compares two values numerically and returns the maximum.
t.prepend(cmd, kind) adds a new step at the front.
Assumes that neither self nor other is a NaN, that self is not infinite and that other is nonzero.
Raised if conflicting options are added to an OptionParser.
GetPassWarning - This UserWarning is issued when getpass() cannot prevent echoing of the password contents while reading.
A buffered interface to random access streams.
This is an empty string by default.
Hook method executed once when the cmdloop() method is about to return.
If the HTTP response indicates that the connection should be closed, then it will be closed before the response is returned.
handlers If specified, this should be an iterable of already created handlers, which will be added to the root logger.
A parenthesised argument list, used by Call()
findall Find all occurrences of a pattern in a string.
Create a new shared object and return its id
Used by the module type when the method does not raise NotImplementedError.
This class provides naming, typing, files stored on disk, and more.
Decode a bytestring of base-64 data into a bytes object.
Expect a response beginning with '2'.
Return false if cookies should not be returned, given cookie path.
Return True if domain A domain-matches domain B, according to RFC 2965.
This is done with proper interlocking so that if multiple acquire() calls are blocked, release() will wake exactly one of them up.
Nodes should be considered equal if they have the same structure, ignoring the prefix string and other context information.
Take a snapshot of traces of memory blocks allocated by Python.
Optional arg 'memo' is a Python dict, used as the pickle's memo.
Any command-line options between the current and the next command are used to set attributes of the current command object.
Get the request and client address from the socket.
Send an RFC5161 enable string to the server.
Greedy means that it will match as many repetitions as possible.
Transform list into a heap, in-place, in O(len(x)) time.
Defects are just instances that live on the message object's .defects attribute.
Escape special characters in a string.
This handler, intended for use under Unix, watches the file to see if it has changed since the last emit.
This allows failures to be post-mortem debugged.
For binary mode, this function is equivalent to the GzipFile constructor: GzipFile(filename, mode, compresslevel).
Return the data from path as raw bytes.
By default, one argument will be consumed and a single value will be produced.
Simple writable BufferedIOBase implementation for a socket Does not hold data in a buffer, avoiding any need to call flush().
When one process no longer needs access to a shared memory block that might still be needed by other processes, the close() method should be called.
Move a file respecting dry-run flag.
Constructor that prevents BasePattern from being instantiated.
Find the vcvarsall.bat file At first it tries to find the productdir of VS 2008 in the registry.
Args: obj: either a Network or Address object.
Return a callable object that fetches the given attribute(s) from its operand.
Raised if an Option instance is created with invalid or inconsistent arguments.
An ordered list of upcoming events.
The wrapped-object will fallback to a Py2.x style comparison for unorderable types (sorting first comparing the type name and then by the obj ids).
Initialize the module as appropriate for POSIX systems.
Note that both CHARSET and LANGUAGE can be None, in which case you should consider VALUE to be encoded in the us-ascii charset.
split Split a string by the occurrences of a pattern.
If frame is not specified, debugging starts from caller's frame.
decorator that makes the repr() of an enum member reference its module instead of its class; also exports all members to the enum's module's global namespace
Constructor arguments should be passed as keyword arguments only.
Raises ValueError if 'val' is anything else.
This basic generator writes the message to the given file object as plain text.
This method wakes up at most n of the coroutines waiting for the condition variable; it is a no-op if no coroutines are waiting.
When context is set True, controls number of lines displayed before and after the change.
a(rgs) Print the argument list of the current function.
A subclass can define this as a hook for optimizations.
Replace variable placeholders in script text with context-specific variables.
If no such fields exist, failobj is returned (defaults to None).
A test result class that can print formatted text results to a stream.
Result is tuple of 2 ints (message count, mailbox size)
Set the first sequence to be compared.
This is necessary for interactive sessions to keep the breakpoints active across multiple calls to run().
The InvalidParameter TokenList that is returned acts like a Parameter, but the data attributes are None.
If the bytes are truly not available (due to EOF), then the IncompleteRead exception can be used to detect the problem.
Otherwise, files are considered different if their sizes or contents differ.
A collection of doctest examples that should be run in a single namespace.
Tells whether or not this result was a success.
Return an absolute path to the source or compiled file for an object.
Basically, see if the supplied record would cause the file to exceed the size limit we have.
- The implementation uses a 2-vector class named Vec2D, derived from tuple.
At the end of the file, creating a new instance will fail with an EOFError exception.
Base class for various socket-based server classes.
Context manager for temporarily redirecting stdout to another file.
Helper to produce a directory listing (absent index.html).
NOTE: The protocol and settings may change anytime without prior deprecation.
The default is False, meaning it parses the entire contents of the file.
Decide whether to show documentation on a variable.
Return true if the byte ordinal 'c' is a hexadecimal digit in ASCII.
After these operations, an attempt is made to import a module named sitecustomize, which can perform arbitrary additional site-specific customizations.
Formatters need to know how a LogRecord is constructed.
Returns a copy of the operand with the sign set to 0.
Also note that if the arguments are instances of some subclass of str, the return type is still plain str.
Information about how to convert command line strings to Python objects.
Get a signature object for the passed callable.
Once no more progress can be made, empty tuples are returned.
Certain character sets must be encoded with quoted-printable or base64 when used in email headers or bodies.
Long and short options may be mixed.
Receive bytes data as a bytes object.
Sort list of members and return highest numbered version - if it exists.
Create an instance of the class that will use the named test method when executed.
If an exception is raised and the decorator created the module it is subsequently removed from sys.modules.
sax -- The Simple API for XML, developed by XML-Dev, led by David Megginson and ported to Python by Lars Marius Garshol.
a docstring, comment, blank line or EOF).
Enable or disable support of the CDATA sections.
As we do not have different encodings for the same number, the received object already is in its canonical form.
Returns: A boolean, True if the address is a loopback per RFC 3330.
Decapitate the payload of a NaN to fit the context
Return the location of module docs or None
Check that the expression is false.
See module pickletools source for extensive comments.
As a side-effect, an extension may be added to the filename and more than one file may be created.
Return the file number of the current file.
Line numbers for the Examples are 0-based.
Collect the zombie child processes regularly in the ForkingMixIn.
Return True if mode is from a whiteout.
Encode the message's payload in quoted-printable.
Characters that are not in the standard alphabet are discarded prior to the padding check.
The directory is readable, writable, and searchable only by the creating user.
Note -- this is a base class for those who don't want the automatic handling of errors type 302 (relocated) and 401 (authorization needed).
The first line will be shorter by the length of the header name plus ": " if a header name was specified at Header construction time.
Copy a regular file content or metadata by using high-performance fcopyfile(3) syscall (macOS).
This subclass of IncrementalDecoder can be used as the baseclass for an incremental decoder if the decoder must be able to handle incomplete byte sequences.
Called when the given test is about to be run
All numbers inherit from this class.
Optional s is the initial header value.
Set the Message representation of visible headers.
Argument names are not part of the specification, and only the arguments of open() are intended to be used as keyword arguments.
The token is an opaque object (supporting equality testing) identifying the current version of the ABC cache for virtual subclasses.
Neither commas nor quotes count if they are escaped.
Joinable list of all non-daemon threads.
This module tries to retrieve as much platform-identifying data as possible.
The string is returned unchanged if it's not a wrapped URL.
Since notify() does not release the lock, its caller should.
The portion will be discarded if another path entry finder locates the module as a normal module or package.
Given a list of pathnames, returns the longest common leading component
Controls for how messages are interpreted and formatted.
Unicode strings are automatically converted, where necessary.
Otherwise the minimum (closer to negative infinity) of the two operands is chosen as the result.
Iteration is terminated by getattr(x, attr) is None.
Create a new socket and send a PORT command for it.
Reset state variables to their post-DATA state.
The decorated function is passed the module to use instead of the module name.
Return a set of all tasks for the loop.
The info field currently consists of an ASCII string giving a human-readable description of the audio file.
Return the index where to insert item x in list a, assuming a is sorted.
If 'globals' is specified, the code will be executed within that namespace (as opposed to inside timeit's namespace).
If s is a Unicode string, then charset is a hint specifying the character set of the characters in the string.
Utility code for constructing importers, etc.
The optional 'path' argument is ignored -- it's there for compatibility with the importer protocol.
Windows can delete the file even in this case.
Wake up the first waiter that isn't done.
Return the indent size, in spaces, at the start of a line of text.
Some headers do in fact appear multiple times (e.g.
The optional charset is the character set that is used to encode realname in case realname is not ASCII safe.
args is the argument list to be parsed, without the leading reference to the running program.
These paths may be absolute or relative (to the current working directory).
If the attribute isn't callable (the default is None), the source is simply renamed to the destination.
Read-only access to the address family for this socket.
The default encoding is platform dependent, but any encoding supported by Python can be passed.
The GET and HEAD requests are identical except that the HEAD request omits the actual contents of the file.
One line identifying the request type and path 2.
For classes, annotations include also inherited members.
This is 'parse' routine because it consumes the remaining value, but it would never be called to parse a full header.
Return the textual or numeric representation of logging level 'level'.
Returns the natural (base e) logarithm of the operand.
In pax headers, "linkname" is called "linkpath".
Example for the anonymous turtle, i.
Any items whose home class cannot be discovered are skipped.
A stream-like object could be for example: sys.stdin.buffer, sys.stdout.buffer, a socket, a tape device etc.
Return some info --- useful to spot problems with refcounting
key, default and the result are bytes.
From the POV of something(), the cancellation did not happen.
Typing an empty line repeats the last command.
"Sniffs" the format of a CSV file (i.e.
The func will be passed to sys.settrace() for each thread, before its run() method is called.
Extensive comments about the pickle protocols and pickle-machine opcodes can be found here.
loads Convert an XML-RPC packet to unmarshalled data plus a method name (None if not present).
Return a new dict which maps field names to their values.
Write a list (or any iterable) of data bytes to the transport.
No aliasing or normalizing takes place.
Wake up the first waiter if it isn't done.
Marker object for Signature.empty and Parameter.empty.
On Windows the Win32 API function TerminateProcess() is called to stop the subprocess.
Access attributes to return a named object, usable as a sentinel.
The destination path in that directory must not already exist.
Note: this function can fail with the new directory structure made if you lack permissions needed to unlink the leaf directory or file.
The time is an absolute timestamp, using the same time reference as loop.time().
Due to technical limitations, the callback can't be used to filter traffic or to abort a connection.
Get a list of (command, description) tuples.
Get strings describing the arguments for the given object Returns a pair of strings representing function parameter lists including parenthesis.
According to RFC 3986, having an authority component means the URL must have two slashes after the scheme.
List 'subscribed' mailbox names in directory matching pattern.
Inplace subtract counter, but keep only results with positive counts.
Remove duplicate values of an environment variable.
RFC 2818 and RFC 6125 rules are followed.
Must be only one match, otherwise result is None.
a handle or future or task) was created, if any.
The result will be inexact unless b is integral and the result is finite and can be expressed exactly in 'precision' digits.
The data is fit to a line passing through the origin.
Accepts a pytree Pattern Node and returns a set of the pattern types which will match first.
A hook to replace sys.excepthook that shows tracebacks in HTML.
The argument is the transport representing the pipe connection.
This overrides both the 'filename' and 'file' arguments to the constructor.
A trailing newline is stripped from the output.
The last (additional) element is the time zone offset in seconds, except if the timezone was specified as -0000.
Every shared memory block is assigned a unique name.
Iterator over elements repeating each as many times as its count.
The node argument may also be modified in-place to effect the same change.
Caution: A complex expression can overflow the C stack and cause a crash.
The format of the returned string is like "YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ssZ", representing Universal Time (UTC, aka GMT).
Returns: True if the tree was modified, False otherwise.
Disassemble classes, methods, functions, and other compiled objects.
This command performs the same actions as CLOSE, except that no messages are permanently removed from the currently selected mailbox.
The design is such that one can use the factory functions returned by the codec.lookup() function to construct the instance.
The attributes listed in 'options' will be initialized to None.
Calls unlink() on the shared memory block with the supplied name and removes it from the tracker instance inside the Server.
Format the exception part of a traceback.
Don't try to construct it yourself.
Normally used from a setup script as from distutils.core import setup setup (...)
A context manager that controls event loop life cycle.
Returns the name of the archive file.
Abstract base class for defining command classes, the "worker bees" of the Distutils.
Return a month's calendar string (multi-line).
Returns True if the event loop is running.
Converts self to an int, truncating if necessary.
Arguments: f1 -- First file name f2 -- Second file name shallow -- treat files as identical if their stat signatures (type, size, mtime) are identical.
The line passed is the physical line.
Raises ValueError if the match does not correspond to a valid date or datetime.
A list of the final component's suffixes, if any.
s may be a byte string or a Unicode string, but see the .append() documentation for semantics.
Encode a single header line with Base64 encoding in a given charset.
State and position of the turtle as well as drawings of other turtles are not affected.
Write string literal value with a best effort attempt to avoid backslashes.
Like itermonthdates(), but will yield (year, month, day) tuples.
Create a ChainMap with a single dict created from the iterable.
Specifying a negative protocol version selects the highest protocol version supported.
If the stream was not opened because 'delay' was specified in the constructor, open it before calling the superclass's emit.
Format a list of tuples or FrameSummary objects for printing.
The close() method is called automatically when the class instance is destroyed.
Format function arguments and keyword arguments.
Common code for GET and HEAD commands.
Used to instantiate instances of Random to get generators that don't share state.
Request named status conditions for mailbox.
Helper to get optional details about named references Returns the dereferenced name as both value and repr if the name list is defined.
Like chmod(), except if the path points to a symlink, the symlink's permissions are changed, rather than its target's.
We do it this way because it makes both error recovery and working with the resulting parse tree easier.
Reformat the single paragraph in 'text' to fit in lines of no more than 'width' columns, and return a new string containing the entire wrapped paragraph.
Yields: A tuple containing the first and last IP addresses in the sequence.
linesep specifies the characters used to indicate a new line in the output.
This mimics how the Python parser splits source code.
Read the logging configuration from a ConfigParser-format file.
Convert values to an appropriate type.
Converts a float to a decimal number, exactly.
Some details were adapted from uu.py which was written by Lance Ellinghouse and modified by Jack Jansen and Fredrik Lundh.
The first string is suitable for use in function definition and the second is suitable for use in function call.
This is similar to the Unix "mv" command.
If size is negative or omitted, read until EOF.
- dest -- The name of the attribute to hold the created object(s) - nargs -- The number of command-line arguments that should be consumed.
If they are numerically equal then the left-hand operand is chosen as the result.
It doesn't define any behavior of its own, but is the base class for all exceptions defined in this package.
Return true if the object is a frame object.
Return the maximum allowed number of headers named 'name'.
This is a private helper for 'asyncio.sleep()', used when the 'delay' is set to 0.
An instance of this class represents a connection to a telnet server.
Return pair (transport, protocol), where transport support WriteTransport interface.
If path does not conform to PEP 3147 format, ValueError will be raised.
When the method is HTTP, these headers are those returned by the server at the head of the retrieved HTML page (including Content-Length and Content-Type).
Read up to LEN bytes and return them.
This function should be called before any use is made of the class, usually in class decorators that add methods to the subject class.
Return the next message in a one-time iteration.
Returns a characteristic path of the pattern tree.
Return True if self is a signaling NaN; otherwise return False.
Get a class name and qualify it with a module name if necessary.
Dispatch a trace function for debugged frames based on the event.
Return the directory containing the Python library (standard or site additions).
Removes the handler for process 'pid'.
This means that option and non-option arguments may be intermixed.
Return the number of members (no aliases)
If the global logfp is None, the global logfile may be a string giving a filename to open, in append mode.
Only relies upon the methods of TurtleScreenBase and NOT upon components of the underlying graphics toolkit - which is Tkinter in this case.
Returns the number closest to a, in direction towards b.
Returns the remaining number of cancellation requests.
It also implements RFC 2047 encoded word decoding.
Standard approach to encoding parsed results from str to bytes
The returned line does not include the trailing newline.
Generate Python documentation in HTML or text for interactive use.
- ArgumentError -- The exception raised by ArgumentParser objects when there are errors with the parser's actions.
Return True if the operand is a qNaN or sNaN; otherwise return False.
Get the option dictionary for a given command.
This method should be called from handlers when an exception is encountered during an emit() call.
It returns when there's nothing more it can do with the available data.
an error in the command line usage.
If not specified, the strings default to blanks.
Path component of request-URI, as defined by RFC 2965.
Each context dictionary maps object names to anchor names.
Removes the pack format from the registry.
See TextWrapper class for available keyword args to customize wrapping behaviour.
Coroutine that call wait() once the flag is true will not block at all.
Constructor that prevents Base from being instantiated.
Create an object representing a full email address.
If all addresses are accepted, then the method will return an empty dictionary.
If IDLE with -n switch (no subprocess) is used, this value should be set to True in turtle.cfg.
You can then run various versions of the service by combining one of the server classes with your request handler class.
Parse the '150' response for a RETR request.
Exception for missing and invalid extended headers.
Handle "fatal" error according to self.errorlevel
mtime can be used to set the modification time.
If 'header' is true, decode underscore as space (per RFC 1522).
Attach a mock as an attribute of this one, replacing its name and parent.
Return the size of a file, reported by os.stat().
Like SyncManager but uses SharedMemoryServer instead of Server.
Update configuration dictionary first according to config-file, in the import directory, then according to config-file in the current working directory.
The quote characters are stripped from any quoted string.
Return a JSON string representation of a Python data structure.
A handler class which sends an SMTP email for each logging event.
class to add info() and geturl() methods to an open file.
Negates mu while keeping sigma the same.
If you need to do periodic tasks, do them in another thread.
Return dict where keys are lines in the line number table.
Return 'line' or 'polygon' or 'image' depending on type of item.
This does not affect any list of standard include directories that the compiler may search by default.
Raises KeyError if no matching cookie exists.
This just loops through the handlers offering them the record to handle.
Except for the code 'C', the language code corresponds to RFC 1766.
The formatted output is truncated when either limit is exceeded.
The aliasing engine includes support for many commonly used locale names and maps them to values suitable for passing to the C lib's setlocale() function.
Test passing a directory that already exists.
The result is the closest representable number to self (excluding self) that is in the direction towards other, unless both have the same value.
Create a temp file based on path and open for reading and writing.
When the number of data points is odd, return the middle data point.
A mixin implementation of BufferedIOBase with an underlying raw stream.
backlog is the maximum number of queued connections passed to listen() (defaults to 100).
Enum where members are also (and must be) ints
If the server is passive, send a pasv command, connect to it, and start the transfer command.
When invoked with blocking set to false, do not block.
Set delay value which determines speed of turtle animation.
Call data.encode("latin-1") but show a better error message.
Returns the matching spec, or None if not found.
The optional arguments can be used to augment the compilation environment.
The default policy maintains backward compatibility.
Shelf implementation using the "BSD" db interface.
The 'optimization' parameter controls the presumed optimization level of the bytecode file.
Informational class which holds the details about an archive member given by a tar header block.
To specify the use of a secure protocol (TLS), pass in a tuple for the secure argument.
Name is the library name without any prefix like lib, suffix like .so, or version number.
'fields' is an iterable of either (name), (name, type) or (name, type, Field) objects.
Hook method executed just after a command dispatch is finished.
When filename is set, origin will match.
Return a tuple of parameters to the function.
Returns: A boolean, True if this is the unspecified address as defined in RFC 2373 2.5.2.
They can inherit from this class but don't need to.
The commands themselves are entered on the following lines.
This is used when the message is being serialized by a generator.
Decodes data from the stream self.stream and returns the resulting object.
If msg is bytes, it is transmitted as is.
This assumes the node type matches and self.content is not None.
By default, all communication is in bytes, and therefore any "input" should be bytes, and the stdout and stderr will be bytes.
base64 encoded sequence had an incorrect length
The inexact signal may be tested (or trapped) to determine if a given operation (or sequence of operations) was inexact.
Prepare string to be used in a quoted string.
Ensure all logging output has been flushed.
Create the CancelledError to raise if the Future is cancelled.
Intrinsic defaults can be specified by passing them into the ConfigParser constructor as a dictionary.
Initialize the adapter with a logger and a dict-like object which provides contextual information.
This method has no effect if the file is already closed.
If no name is specified, return the root logger.
The acquire() method blocks if necessary until it can return without making the counter negative.
The repr of each object contains a hint at how it works.
Phrases are canonicalized by squeezing all runs of continuous whitespace into one space.
All of the resulting site-specific directories, if they exist, are appended to sys.path, and also inspected for path configuration files.
Instead, when it finds something unexpected, it adds a 'defect' to the current message.
NormalDist objects hash equal if their mu and sigma are both equal.
On Windows, the msvcrt module will be used.
Perform the actual selection, until some monitored file objects are ready or a timeout expires.
Note that this will not work for Aqua browsers if the user has moved the application package after installation.
Read one line, using input() when appropriate.
Note: The futures 'f' are not necessarily members of fs.
Return true if the object is a member descriptor.
Inputs may be any numeric type that can be coerced to a float during the interpolation step.
Note: this does not overwrite an existing header with the same field name.
A selector can use various implementations (select(), poll(), epoll()...) depending on the platform.
The caller is responsible for checking this condition for performance reasons.
Return an empty email Message object.
But a TextIOWrapper around self.rfile would buffer too many bytes from the stream, bytes which we later need to read as bytes.
This is only recommended to use under Unix.
This function supports Basic authentication only.
Just returns 10, as this is Decimal, :)
Send the blank line ending the MIME headers.
Supports wrapping existing descriptors and handles non-descriptor callables as instance methods.
Single and double quotes are equivalent, and the quote characters can be backslash-escaped.
When a Turtle object is created or a function derived from some Turtle method is called a TurtleScreen object is automatically created.
A macro definition is either a (name, value) 2-tuple or a (name,) 1-tuple.
Like read(), this may issue multiple reads to the underlying raw stream, unless the latter is 'interactive'.
Extract script from text with examples.
Convert a null-terminated bytes object to a string.
Convert 4 bytes in little-endian to an integer.
If it returns false, so should your subclass (assuming your subclass wants to be more strict about which cookies to return).
SimpleCookie supports strings as cookie values.
If the server does ESMTP, message size and each of the specified options will be passed to it.
Return (start, stop) or raise KeyError.
Otherwise, change the future's state to cancelled, schedule the callbacks and return True.
Optional argument sep specifies the separator between date and time, default 'T'.
Move the turtle backward by distance.
Args: address: A string or integer, the IP address.
This class takes care of details of the trace facility; a derived class should implement user interaction.
When path information is provided dlopen() does not search any other directories.
The special characters are: "." Matches any character except a newline.
That is an issue for the programmer, though, since changing the timezone is worthless without that call.
Note that unlike the os.uname function this also returns possible processor information as an additional tuple entry.
It is off by default because it can be dangerous.
Any surrogateescaped bytes get turned into the unicode unknown-character glyph.
With a filename:lineno argument, clear all breaks at that line in that file.
Spawn an external command respecting dry-run flag.
The host parameter can also be a sequence of strings and in that case the TCP server is bound to all hosts of the sequence.
Optional last argument is callback function; all non-empty arguments before it are concatenated to the LIST command.
SPAM and spam are different requests).
The sequence must be accessed in strictly sequential order; random access and readline() cannot be mixed.
Set or return the current shearfactor.
The node immediately preceding the invocant in their parent's children list.
SMTP 'expn' command -- expands a mailing list.
The parent is derived from the name.
To measure the execution time of the first statement, use the timeit() method.
It should be used as a main entry point for asyncio programs, and should ideally only be called once.
'amdk6' An empty string is returned if the value cannot be determined.
Perform any cleanup actions in the logging system (e.g.
This feature can be used to implement custom decoders (e.g.
Used to produce an SQL dump of the database.
Internal: Ask the event loop to call all callbacks.
If only partial line can be read due to EOF, return incomplete line without terminating newline.
Convert a file's mode to a string of the form '-rwxrwxrwx'.
Each record contains a frame object, filename, line number, function name, a list of lines of context, and index within the context.
Return the next item or raise StopAsyncIteration when exhausted.
You will most likely need to explicitly import all parent packages in the proper order for a submodule to get the correct spec.
If the delay function returns prematurely, it is simply restarted.
Return True if a signal handler was removed, False if not.
blocksize: The maximum number of bytes to read from the socket at one time.
Stop the event loop as soon as reasonable.
Convenience for checking if a timeout has expired.
The watcher uses a thread per process for waiting for the process finish.
Restore internal state from object returned by getstate().
The optional argument 'completekey' is the readline name of a completion key; it defaults to the Tab key.
If any values in the query arg are sequences and doseq is true, each sequence element is converted to a separate parameter.
This converts each documentation string in a module that contains doctest tests to a unittest test case.
A flavour implements a particular (platform-specific) set of path semantics.
Because an 'unstructured' value must by definition constitute the entire value, this 'get' routine does not return a remaining value, only the parsed TokenList.
It's a good idea to do this while you're in the middle of a complicated drawing, because hiding the turtle speeds up the drawing observably.
An abstract base class for context managers.
Returns the expected transfer size or None; size is not guaranteed to be present in the 150 message.
Log a message with severity 'INFO' on the root logger.
'annotations' is a dictionary mapping parameter names to annotations.
Internal helper for Literal creation: flatten Literals among parameters.
Run this script with -h or --help for documentation.
The program being executed is aborted.
This method allows certain headers to be limited in the number of instances of that header that may be added to a Message programmatically.
Minus corresponds to unary prefix minus in Python.
A coroutine which creates a UNIX Domain Socket server.
Based on PEP 282 and comments thereto in comp.lang.python.
Return the version of MSVC that was used to build Python.
Return True if this path matches the given pattern.
Ensures current directory is on returned path, and argv0 directory is not Exception: argv0 dir is left alone if it's also pydoc's directory.
The strings and path objects are combined so as to yield a canonicalized path, which is incorporated into the new PurePath object.
All names are converted to lowercase.
At the top level, it is accessible like a dictionary, whose keys are the field names.
If topdown is false, the triple for a directory is generated after the triples for all of its subdirectories (directories are generated bottom up).
Report that the given example failed.
Subclass of Future which represents a wait handle.
Get a description for a single group.
An empty string is returned if the value cannot be determined.
Search the specified list of directories for a static or shared library file 'lib' and return the full path to that file.
nobackups: If true no backup '.bak' files will be created for those files that are being refactored.
cafile should point to a single file containing a bundle of CA certificates, whereas capath should point to a directory of hashed certificate files.
Each instance of this class manages its own queue.
Return True if obj is a coroutine object.
Parse the '257' response for a MKD or PWD request.
Return None if there is no more available.
Create a message structure from a string.
size is intended to prevent having to decode huge files in one step.
If the pickle is a bytes object, it's wrapped in a BytesIO object, and the latter's tell() result is used.
If there are no breakpoints, set the system trace function to None.
Converts a finite Decimal instance to a rational number, exactly.
A number of options may be provided as keyword arguments: setUp A set-up function.
Change owner user and group of the given path.
Convert a bytecode file path to a source path (if possible).
If given two arguments, cookies belonging to the specified path within that domain are removed.
An email.errors.HeaderParseError may be raised when certain decoding error occurs (e.g.
email Parser wants to see strings rather than bytes.
A node visitor base class that walks the abstract syntax tree and calls a visitor function for every node found.
At least one of 'filename' (a string) and 'file' (a file-like object) must be supplied.
Return the compiler-flags associated with the future features that have been imported into the given namespace (globs).
seq can be any iterable yielding byte strings.
All other mixed operations raise FloatOperation.
Return 'pathname' as a name that will work on the native filesystem, i.e.
Initialize the handler with the buffer size, the level at which flushing should occur and an optional target.
Warning raised when refusing unsafe input
The arguments are the same as for the call function.
Reconfigure the text stream with new parameters.
The base implementation just returns the value passed in.
Decide what method to use for paging through text.
Return the members of the archive as a list of TarInfo objects.
Dummy function, assigned to log when logging is disabled.
----- turtle.py This module is an extended reimplementation of turtle.py from the Python standard distribution up to Python 2.5.
The locale language is set at the offset and then checked again before exiting.
See also the description of the mimetools module.
Create a new section in the configuration.
The best (no more than n) matches among the possibilities are returned in a list, sorted by similarity score, most similar first.
If so, it is necessary to respect the expectations that 'setup' has of Distribution.
The CalledProcessError object will have the return code in the returncode attribute.
Every other consumer of this type can ignore this metadata and treat this type as int.
Default implementation of mapping the log record into a dict that is sent as the CGI data.
fmean Fast, floating point arithmetic mean.
Flatten Unions among parameters, then remove duplicates.
Test whether FILENAME matches PATTERN, including case.
Values can span multiple lines, as long as they are indented deeper than the first line of the value.
Return a tuple of nonlocals in the function.
Found line with no leading whitespace and no colon before blank line.
Return True if self and other have the same exponent; otherwise return False.
If the object does not appear to have globals, an empty dictionary is used.
on Linux, the kernel version isn't particularly important.
Optional arg b is the second of two sequences to be compared.
The socket is kept open across logging calls.
mode can be 'r' for reading (default), 'w' for (over)writing, 'x' for creating exclusively, or 'a' for appending.
curses.panel Module for using panels with curses.
A dumb and slow but simple dbm clone.
Display text documentation, given an object or a path to an object.
This function always returns an object which can work as a context manager and has the properties url, headers, and status.
Return the number of tasks currently waiting at the barrier.
distutils.msvccompiler Contains MSVCCompiler, an implementation of the abstract CCompiler class for the Microsoft Visual Studio.
Both the constructor and the add() method now take arbitrarily many file names as arguments.
Return true if the given object is defined in the given module.
Hook method for deconstructing the test fixture after testing it.
Store name and value in the model without modification.
When the program exits any remaining finalizers for which the atexit attribute is true will be run in reverse order of creation.
Return True if the given file is an ELF file
Raises a ValueError if the instance does not have a method with the specified name.
Subclass of Calendar that outputs a calendar as a simple plain text similar to the UNIX program cal.
Code common to mkstemp, TemporaryFile, and NamedTemporaryFile.
Do a series of global replacements on a string.
Unified diffs are a compact way of showing line changes and a few lines of context.
This method sends the request to the server.
Raises an AssertionError if the args and keyword args passed in are different to the last call to the mock.
The event loop only keeps weak references to tasks.
Argument s is a bytes-like object to encode.
Once the lock is unlocked (not owned by any thread), then grab ownership, set the recursion level to one, and return.
If it is '', universal newline mode is enabled, but line endings are returned to the caller untranslated.
Add 'sitedir' argument to sys.path if missing and handle .pth files in 'sitedir'
Returns True if universal builds are supported on this system
Return the factory to be used when instantiating a log record.
A more or less complete user-defined wrapper around list objects.
S.extend(iterable) -- extend sequence by appending elements from the iterable
Mark the graph as finished and check for cycles in the graph.
Produce html documentation for a data descriptor.
- data is payload for a POST request or None.
Check an enumeration for various constraints.
The file will be created if it doesn't exist when opened for writing or appending; it will be truncated when opened for writing.
Parse all remaining data and return the root message object.
If no conversion codec is necessary, this attribute will be None.
Create a sequence of lookups with 'vars' taking priority over the 'section' which takes priority over the DEFAULTSECT.
When returning False, the results dict may still be updated.
The base filter class only allows events which are below a certain point in the logger hierarchy.
The function does not check this precondition.
Return the boundary associated with the payload if present.
Return True if mode is from a character special device file.
Set handler as the new event loop exception handler.
Get or create the module lock for a given module name.
Return the Canvas of this TurtleScreen.
Current turtle position is last point of polygon.
Adds an empty counter, effectively stripping negative and zero counts
Keys are section names, values are dictionaries with keys and values that should be present in the section.
Page through text on a text terminal.
Hook method executed once when the cmdloop() method is called.
Send a MIME header to the headers buffer.
This is initialized with the filename for the dbm database.
An arrow indicates the "current frame", which determines the context of most commands.
If 'anchor' is false, both of these will match.
The baseline overhead can be measured by invoking the program without arguments.
The leading '--' characters should not be included in the option name.
If not provided, the current owner and group will be used.
Variant of Queue that retrieves open entries in priority order (lowest first).
Return True if self is canonical; otherwise return False.
If skipkeys is false, then it is a TypeError to attempt encoding of keys that are not str, int, float or None.
Change the stream position to byte offset pos.
Receive a datagram from a datagram socket.
Return a list of names of all currently available turtle shapes.
Values received from HTTP are kept as strings.
This default can be changed by calling aiff() or aifc() before the first writeframes or writeframesraw.
If content is not None, replace the dot with the parenthesized list of alternatives, e.g.
The default implementation calls the 'namer' attribute of the handler, if it's callable, passing the default name to it.
Currently, this is also used for parsing RFC 2109 cookies.
Return a suite of all test cases contained in testCaseClass
HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol) is an extensible protocol on top of a reliable stream transport (e.g.
These will be used to set attributes on the mock after it is created.
Same as self.assertTrue(isinstance(obj, cls)), with a nicer default message.
text is string we are matching against, all returned matches must begin with it.
Raises a ValueError if called more times than there were items placed in the queue.
The caller should already have dealt with leading CFWS.
Stop on the next line in or below the given frame.
Raise DistutilsExecError if running the program fails in any way; just return on success.
The elements of a must be hashable.
A thread can be join()ed many times.
Don't try to reopen an already connected instance.
By default, copy2() is used, but any function that supports the same signature (like copy()) can be used.
If the number of releases exceeds the number of acquires, raise a ValueError.
Tasks block on 'wait()' and are simultaneously awoken once they have all made their call.
This is deliberately a very simple class.
Editing widget using the interior of a window object.
Copies the second operand's sign to the first one.
Then that block is extended as far as possible by matching (only) junk elements on both sides.
Returns None when source can't be found.
Each month contains between 4 and 6 weeks and each week contains 1-7 days.
Return a recreated instance of self.
If the input dataset is empty, it raises a StatisticsError.
Return a tuple containing the schemes names.
Open the current base file with the (original) mode and encoding.
Instantiate a new IPv6 address object.
You can also instantiate either of these classes directly, regardless of your system.
If no mappings are provided, a single empty dictionary is used.
If this method is not overridden, it repeats the last nonempty command entered.
Note that this is 1 if the sequences are identical, and 0 if they have nothing in common.
The implementation may pick one at random, so the order in which blocked threads are awakened should not be relied on.
Read a mailcap file and return a dictionary keyed by MIME type.
Otherwise, the parameters will be quoted (the default).
parser A DocTestParser (or subclass) that should be used to extract tests from the files.
Create and return a clone of the turtle.
a Server object which can be used to stop the service.
If an attempt is made to release an unlocked lock, a RuntimeError will be raised.
Note that encoding names should be ASCII only.
Return True if mode is from a block special device file.
ASCII characters outside the ascii-printable range found
Ensure that 'os.environ' has all the environment variables we guarantee that users can use in config files, command-line options, etc.
Modify the filename of a log file when rotating.
force all lines in the stack to be loaded.
Can only be used when assertWarnsRegex is used as a context manager.
Typed version of the return of open() in text mode.
Set up scripts into the created environment from a directory.
color(colorstring), color((r,g,b)), color(r,g,b) inputs as in pencolor, set both, fillcolor and pencolor, to the given value.
The subclass DefaultCookiePolicy defines the standard rules for Netscape and RFC 2965 cookies -- override that if you want a customized policy.
Return False as built-in modules are never packages.
This list is first processed for "global options" -- options that set attributes of the Distribution instance.
Find the n largest elements in a dataset.
Thus we always get the last component of the path, even for directories.
Convert IMAP4 flags response to python tuple.
If the coroutine is not done, this returns the stack where it is suspended.
To show the internals exactly as they are.
Content types (record layer) See RFC 8446, section B.1
Return the Charset instance associated with the message's payload.
This can be used to provide custom deserializations (e.g.
any module from a non-pure-Python module distribution; otherwise, return the platform-shared library directory.
A message object is defined as something that has a bunch of RFC 2822 headers and a payload.
Return the metadata change time of a file, reported by os.stat().
This only works for HTTP, HTTPS and FTP connections.
Shared support for scanning document type declarations in HTML and XHTML.
Bind fun to mouse-move-event (with pressed mouse button) on turtle.
Raise an exception for unimplemented types.
Reads all the data from the file and returns the root of the message structure.
This method may raise the following exceptions: SMTPHeloError The server didn't reply properly to the helo greeting.
Decorator to indicate final methods and final classes.
Return path to an MSVC executable program.
May also modify cookies, though this is probably a bad idea.
If results is not None, it must be a dict which will be updated with the nodes matching named subpatterns.
If arg is invalid, return an error message.
Deprecated interpolation used in old versions of ConfigParser.
ValueError: If strict was True and a network address was not supplied.
Retrieve a URL into a temporary location on disk.
Forking and threading versions of each type of server can be created using the ForkingMixIn and ThreadingMixIn mix-in classes.
With a line number, continue execution until a line with a number greater or equal to that is reached.
Matching according to RFC 6125, section 6.4.3 - Hostnames are compared lower-case.
The filename is not changed until after the first line of the next file has been read.
The section DEFAULT is never returned because it cannot be removed.
Prints multi-column formatting for year calendars
The default value is 0, meaning no annotations.
Otherwise set the given elements and transform the turtleshape according to the matrix consisting of first row t11, t12 and second row t21, 22.
The newline argument is like the one of TextIOWrapper's constructor.
Pickles the record and writes it to the socket in binary format.
To stop the server, call stopListening().
Get the first header value for 'name' Return None if the header is missing instead of raising an exception.
Converts a finite float to a rational number, exactly.
It will run the individual test cases in the order in which they were added, aggregating the results.
Returns the smallest representable number larger than a.
For days outside the specified month the day number is 0.
check specifies the integrity check to use.
Returns an int representing the number of bytes read (0 for EOF).
This method is used for unpickled records received from a socket, as well as those created locally.
text: If true, decode stdin, stdout and stderr using the given encoding (if set) or the system default otherwise.
Return a new module object, loaded by the spec's loader.
Return whether commandline indicates we are forking
The standard debugger class (pdb.Pdb) is an example.
Both the inputs and outputs are allowed to contain zero and negative counts.
Return True if self is a normal number; otherwise return False.
Alters flag dispositions for messages in mailbox.
The 'package' argument is required when performing a relative import.
If it contains non-ascii characters it will likewise be encoded according to RFC2231 rules, using the utf-8 charset and a null language.
These will be commented and documented elsewhere.
Return members in reverse definition order.
Ensure headers and content have both been sent
Create a new dict for the current thread, and return it.
It provides methods for creating and returning SharedMemory instances and for creating a list-like object (ShareableList) backed by shared memory.
List starts with original calling frame, if there is one.
This function uses a cache for past comparisons and the results, with cache entries invalidated if their stat information changes.
undo (repeatedly) the last turtle action.
Caller is responsible for deleting the directory when done with it.
MagicMock is a subclass of Mock with default implementations of most of the magic methods.
Returns the time the robots.txt file was last fetched.
Return the distance from the turtle to (x,y) in turtle step units.
Redo the builtin repr() (representation) but with limits on most sizes.
Locks also support the asynchronous context management protocol.
A context manager for preparing the source for blocks.
The alias behaves like a normal typing alias.
We also allow all mailbox entries to be null, and this condition is handled appropriately at a higher level.
Write a byte to self-pipe, to wake up the event loop.
Pop and return the current smallest value, and add the new item.
Items are only appended to the copy at the end.
Helper class to quickly write a loop over all standard input files.
Return the set of errors raised by the FTP class.
Override when a custom connection is required, for example if there is a proxy.
Create a new shared object; return the token and exposed tuple
Thread identifier of this thread or None if it has not been started.
The 'data' argument can be anything that compile() can handle.
A copy of this dict is actually used for each docstring, so that each docstring's examples start with a clean slate.
The default implementation calls the 'rotator' attribute of the handler, if it's callable, passing the source and dest arguments to it.
Continuous distribution bounded by given lower and upper limits, and having a given mode value in-between.
Test if the address is otherwise IETF reserved.
This is useful to make 'path' the second argument to os.path.join().
Class that implements a cache for the Pool class that will notify the pool management threads every time the cache is emptied.
Create a file with the specified name and write 'contents' (a sequence of strings without line terminators) to it.
Multiple -s options are treated similarly.
Disable all logging calls of severity 'level' and below.
Values that cannot be determined are returned as given by the parameter presets.
The module passed in to the function is either from sys.modules if it already exists or is a new module.
The method optionally resolves the names relative to a given module.
Delete the turtle's drawings from the screen.
Disable the automatic generation of child mocks.
Raised when no section matches a requested option.
The stdin, stdout, stderr are None or instances of PipeHandle.
The name is propagated to child mocks.
This method returns the internal flag on exit, so it will always return True except if a timeout is given and the operation times out.
Returns a copy with the sign inverted.
Returns a tuple consisting of: - server response code (e.g.
Returns: None, or a node that is a modified copy of the argument node.
Print the stack or traceback for this task's coroutine.
Return the entire formatted message as a bytes object.
A handler for logging to a file, which watches the file to see if it has changed while in use.
Namespaces should be given as dictionaries.
Each element returned from this iterator will provide the next maximum line length.
returns index of highest bit, or -1 if value is zero or negative
If the invocant does not have a previous sibling, it is None.
Enum where members are also (and must be) strings
Remove any unsupported archs from config vars
If the verbosity is not specified, then the DocTestRunner's verbosity is used.
The policy keyword specifies a policy object that controls a number of aspects of the generator's operation.
import webbrowser The next two lines are commented out so a browser doesn't open if doctest is run on this module.
It also records the types of newlines encountered.
Close the connection without assuming anything about it.
We don't know how to do something on the current platform (but we do know how to do it on some platform) -- eg.
Class Differ: For producing human-readable deltas from sequences of lines of text.
If you have associated levels with names using addLevelName then the name you have associated with 'level' is returned.
If all formats are known, returns None
offset tells from where to start reading the file.
CookieJar that can be loaded from and saved to a file.
Before the first line has been read, returns None.
If the pickle has a tell() method, pos was the value of pickle.tell() before reading the current opcode.
Header is not valid, message gives details.
Append message to mailbox and return (start, stop) offsets.
Licensed to the PSF under a contributor agreement.
saferepr() Generate a 'standard' repr()-like value, but protect against recursive data structures.
Validate the input format, ensure it matches the correct style
This module also defines an exception 'error'.
Imagine a robotic turtle starting at (0, 0) in the x-y plane.
Normalize the version and build strings and return a single version string using the format major.minor.build (or patchlevel).
Split the extension from a pathname.
explicit: A list of fixers to run even if they are explicit.
Return a list of slot names for a given class.
Context to automatically close something at the end of a block.
Mapping of file objects to selector keys.
'-' return first line in list with "delete" markup around the entire line.
If the internal flag is true on entry, return True immediately.
UUID objects are immutable, hashable, and usable as dictionary keys.
The specification for a module, used for loading.
The commands are executed when the breakpoint is hit.
The payload will either be a list object or a string.
Returns the user-specific site-packages directory path.
Reset the barrier to the initial state.
This can be used to set several pen attributes in one statement.
This class can be safely subclassed in a limited fashion.
If 'timeout' is a non-negative number, it blocks at most 'timeout' seconds and raises the Full exception if no free slot was available within that time.
TLS message callback The message callback provides a debugging hook to analyze TLS connections.
Log a message with severity 'DEBUG' on the root logger.
Helper function for degrees() and radians()
an area of "input processing" might include sub-areas "read CSV files", "read XLS files" and "read Gnumeric files").
ValueError: expected 50331648 bytes in a bytes4, but only 6 remain
Return the compiler option to add 'lib' to the list of libraries linked into the shared library or executable.
A mock intended to be used as a property, or other descriptor, on a class.
Raise EOFError if the connection is closed and no cooked data is available.
Raise EOFError when connection is closed.
Args: addresses: A list of IPv4Network's or IPv6Network's Returns: A list of IPv4Network's or IPv6Network's depending on what we were passed.
An optional set of RFC-822-style headers 3.
This does not affect any standard system libraries that the linker may include by default.
The value passed in by the email package may contain surrogateescaped binary data if the lines were parsed by a BytesParser.
If you want to specify a subject line which is record-dependent, override this method.
If None, the 'dest' value will be used as the name.
This IP class contains the version independent methods which are used by single IP addresses.
If the logger has no handlers, basicConfig() is called to add a console handler with a pre-defined format.
Find appropriate C compiler for extension module builds
distutils.ccompiler Contains CCompiler, an abstract base class that defines the interface for the Distutils compiler abstraction model.
Send a PORT command with the current host and the given port number.
The returned string is always coerced to lower case.
If input is a number greater than 10 or smaller than 0.5, speed is set to 0.
If it ends with the colon, then a module object is returned.
SMTP 'rcpt' command -- indicates 1 recipient for this mail.
Rounds the number (if more than precision digits)
Resolve a dotted name to a global object.
Return True if self is a zero; otherwise return False.
Byte-compile one Python source file to Python bytecode.
Called when we stop or break at a line.
To cover the case of an import like 'import foo', use None for the package and 'foo' for the name.
Pop the smallest item off the heap, maintaining the heap invariant.
Use this function when your data is a sample from a population.
NewType(name, tp) is considered a subtype of tp by static type checkers.
Controls how objects will be reduced to a form that can be shared with other processes.
Those internal commands are then hidden until the alias is removed.
Return or set the pen's attributes.
Parses the locale code for localename and returns the result as tuple (language code, encoding).
Return the frame object for the caller's stack frame.
See help(isfunction) for a list of attributes.
If there was a problem with the socket, re-establishes the socket.
Encode bytes using the URL- and filesystem-safe Base64 alphabet.
Return a tuple of globals in the function.
To understand what this class does, it helps to have a copy of RFC 2822 in front of you.
Verifies that it's ok to use in an implicit construction.
To implement a specific service, all you need to do is to derive a class which defines a handle() method.
Read a list of lines of uncompressed bytes from the file.
Object returned by callback registration methods.
For binary mode, this function is equivalent to the LZMAFile constructor: LZMAFile(filename, mode, ...).
Return next yielded value or raise StopIteration.
Set owner of targetpath according to tarinfo.
Cache lines from Python source files.
The coefficient of the result is derived from that of the left-hand operand.
Return first release in which this feature was recognized.
With a false argument, use the normal PORT mode, With a true argument, use the PASV command.
The API of this package is currently provisional.
Return request-host, as defined by RFC 2965.
Return a post-order iterator for the tree.
By default list current directory to stdout.
If limit is specified, at most limit bytes will be read.
Copy an entire directory tree respecting verbose, dry-run, and force flags.
A command-line program that runs a set of tests; this is primarily for making test modules conveniently executable.
This is typically used with a socket or two-way pipe.
This function runs the passed coroutine, taking care of managing the asyncio event loop and finalizing asynchronous generators.
Return lineno dict for all code objects reachable from code.
When it is False, the file or directory is skipped.
fnmatch(FILENAME, PATTERN) matches according to the local convention.
Create a queue object with a given maximum size.
If a string representation of the level is passed in, the corresponding numeric value is returned.
New contexts are copies of DefaultContext.
Raise a RuntimeError if there is none.
Whether this path is a symbolic link.
If the string cannot be encoded to the output codec, a UnicodeError will be raised.
The reporthook argument should be a callable that accepts a block number, a read size, and the total file size of the URL target.
Return list of tuples containing normalised cookie information.
Return an empty iterator for a non-multipart.
.numerator and .denominator should be in lowest terms.
When an exception happens during timing, a traceback is printed to stderr and the return value is 1.
Create a new Snapshot instance with a filtered traces sequence, filters is a list of Filter or DomainFilter instances.
Initiate a transfer over the data connection.
This module defines a number of utilities for use by CGI scripts written in Python.
This doesn't display a stack trace because there isn't one.
This can be used to avoid creating references that will cause the garbage collector to keep the values around longer than needed.
Arguments: - data: bytes object, iterable or file containing the article Returns: - resp: server response if successful
Read with at most one underlying system call.
Otherwise, no such check takes place.
Asserts that the message in a triggered warning matches a regexp.
Internal method to strip elements with a negative or zero count
Unescapes all valid JSON string escape sequences and raises ValueError on attempt to decode an invalid string.
It is used so that a function call will not have to access the timing data for the parent frame.
Class HtmlDiff: For producing HTML side by side comparison with change highlights.
Perform multiple patches in a single call.
Returns the subclass, to allow usage as a class decorator.
Must implement in derived classes or get NotImplementedError.
Return a list of user-defined labels in the mailbox.
Functions that read and write gzipped files.
Determine if object requires a recursive representation.
Returned data will include the separator at the end.
Return the low median of numeric data.
Execution time of this setup statement is NOT timed.
Files opened in binary mode (appending 'b' to the mode argument) return contents as bytes objects without any decoding.
The parameters are returned as a named tuple.
Delegate an error call to the underlying logger.
Return as a string the flags that are set.
Return the class to be used when instantiating a logger.
(This matches the behavior of the traceback module.) For reasons beyond our control, only one stack frame is returned for a suspended coroutine.
But not if ismethod() or isclass() or isfunction() are true.
Returns a string representing one frame involved in the stack.
If timeout is given, and the process takes too long, a TimeoutExpired exception will be raised.
True if only one bit set in num (should be an int)
Module doctest -- a framework for running examples in docstrings.
- url is the url to retrieval or a host, relative-path pair.
To support loading from source code, the abstractmethods inherited from ResourceLoader and ExecutionLoader need to be implemented.
Hostname to send for this command defaults to the FQDN of the local host.
Encode with quoted-printable, wrapping at maxlinelen characters.
Return a compiled re object for the format string.
Return a mapping of file objects to selector keys.
Set the input stream's current position.
Library that exposes various tables found in the StringPrep RFC 3454.
It also provides convenience routines for converting between character sets, given the availability of the applicable codecs.
Quote a string for use in a cookie header.
Attempt to synthesize a controller based on existing controllers.
Returns (system, release, version) aliased to common marketing names used for some systems.
Does nothing if self.version is empty or undefined.
Return count of entries in the undobuffer.
Return True if the operand is a zero; otherwise return False.
Pop up a dialog window for input of a number.
If no policy is specified, the policy associated with the Message object passed to the flatten method is used.
ValueError: expected 50331648 bytes in a string4, but only 6 remain
The size field (a 32-bit value, encoded using big-endian byte order) gives the size of the whole chunk, including the 8-byte header.
Return True for leap years, False for non-leap years.
Only makes one system call, so less data may be returned than requested In non-blocking mode, returns None if no data is available.
When parsing fails for a fieldvalue, a 2-tuple of ('', '') is returned in its place.
Add breakpoint to breaks, if not already there.
Guess the extension for a file based on its MIME type.
Set the documentation string for the entire server.
Returns a types.CodeType if possible, else returns None if a code object does not make sense (e.g.
A watcher that doesn't require running loop in the main thread.
Raised if an ambiguous option is seen on the command line.
BaseServer: - split generic "request" functionality out into BaseServer class.
The locale can be a string, an iterable of two strings (language code and encoding), or None.
Just like self.assertTrue(a in b), but with a nicer default message.
Args: fixers: a list of fixer instances.
Test whether argument path is a Python script.
Handle one request at a time until shutdown.
Translate a shell PATTERN to a regular expression.
Assert that the last await was with the specified arguments.
If indent is a non-negative integer, then JSON array elements and object members will be pretty-printed with that indent level.
If the first frame is already in the unittest module, the traceback is not modified.
stderr: The standard error (None if not captured).
Returns a two-element tuple of lists.
Returns the name of the output zip file.
lambd is 1.0 divided by the desired mean.
An alternate header can be specified in the header argument, and all parameters will be quoted as necessary unless requote is False.
Arguments: (1) name is the name of a gif-file and shape is None.
Override to implement custom flushing behaviour.
Check that every line in the given list starts with the given prefix; if any line does not, then raise a ValueError.
Note that you can return transformed bytes, e.g.
The default handler displays output as HTML.
Encode a dict or sequence of two-element tuples into a URL query string.
Returns: A boolean, True if the address is not reserved per iana-ipv4-special-registry.
The format, check, preset and filters arguments specify the compression settings, as for LZMACompressor, LZMADecompressor and LZMAFile.
It can be overridden in a subclass to dynamically generate diagnostics, choose an appropriate message for the user's preferred language, etc.
This method will compile the module.py into module.pyc if necessary.
Wrapper namespace for re type aliases.
Defaults to None, meaning nothing is called.
Useful for synchronizing a fixed number of tasks at known synchronization points.
Return a unified diff of two strings.
This will only be used when authentication credentials are supplied.
Number of items allowed in the queue.
Duplicate elements in either input list are ignored.
Class to add a close hook to an open file.
Initialize the handler with the buffer size.
Possibilities that don't score at least that similar to word are ignored.
Return a logger with the specified name, creating it if necessary.
If you take the natural logarithm of this distribution, you'll get a normal distribution with mean mu and standard deviation sigma.
This is an abstract, generic version of the return of open().
Arguments: radius -- a number extent (optional) -- a number steps (optional) -- an integer Draw a circle with given radius.
Set the stream's file pointer to pos.
open() uses the file's blksize (as obtained by os.stat) if possible.
Instantiating is the same as instantiating the underlying type; binding it to types is also the same.
The return value is a Server object which can be used to stop the service.
Arrange the given list of classes into a hierarchy of nested lists.
No other action is done afterwards by telnetlib.
:return: The length in bytes of the byte array when it is encoded with quoted-printable for bodies.
If stream was paused, automatically resume it.
The WHATWG URL Parser spec should also be considered.
The number of context lines is set by 'n' which defaults to three.
SMTP 'verify' command -- checks for address validity.
It can also return descriptor objects instead of instance members in some cases.
A breakpoint becomes active when the ignore count is zero.
Return True if the message consists of multiple parts.
compresslevel: None (default for the given compression type) or an integer specifying the level to pass to the compressor.
If port is omitted, the standard SMTP-over-SSL port (465) is used.
Create a ModuleSpec for the specified module.
Return a plausible module name for the path.
The optional second argument can specify an alternate default.
versionchanged:: 3.2 Allow filters to be just callables.
Old value for response 'code' is cleared.
Normalize path, eliminating double slashes, etc.
A timeout may be provided giving the maximum time to wait.
There can be extra calls before or after the specified awaits.
The code here doesn't try to hide it, but you should be aware of it.
Internal: send a command and get the response plus following text.
This class does not have a public constructor.
- Fine control over turtle movement and screen updates via delay(), and enhanced tracer() and speed() methods.
The default implementation calls the append method of the defects attribute of obj.
A Cmd instance or subclass instance is a line-oriented interpreter framework.
When open() is used to open a file in a text mode ('w', 'r', 'wt', 'rt', etc.), it returns a TextIOWrapper.
Extends RawConfigParser.set by validating type and interpolation syntax on the value.
implementing some part of the "command "interface.
If exitmsg is not given or None, a default message is printed.
Normally called for you after tearDown.
Construct a date from a string in ISO 8601 format.
This allows a simple-minded structural check very similar to one trick ponies in collections.abc such as Iterable.
Return the result of the stat() system call on this path, like os.stat() does.
This method continues to send data from data until either all data has been sent or an error occurs.
Open lzma compressed tar archive name for reading or writing.
Otherwise, a new RLock object is created and used as the underlying lock.
Checks if the family is valid for the current environment.
Raises ValueError on non-Unix-ish systems if 'pathname' either starts or ends with a slash.
Patterns is a sequence of glob-style patterns that are used to exclude files
optionflags A set of doctest option flags expressed as an integer.
Inplace union is the maximum of value from either counter.
Return list of process objects corresponding to live child processes
At least one value must be present.
Divide the given string into examples and intervening text, and return them as a list of alternating Examples and strings.
Format the stack ready for printing.
Return an identifier for the table.
Find names of variables which are written in the code Generate sequence of strings
This will also look into built-in containers: tuples, lists, and dicts.
Validate the input format, ensure it is the correct string formatting style
Return True if the server is accepting connections.
This count is incremented when .cancel() is called and may be decremented using .uncancel().
Return the floor of self, as an integer.
NOTE: This neither checks for a wildcard in 'group' nor does it check whether the group actually exists.
Create portable serialized representations of Python objects.
Return a list of lines from the stream.
Set the logging level of this handler.
Called when some datagram is received.
If no command is given, the current alias for name is shown.
Any currently waiting tasks and tasks attempting to 'wait()' will have BrokenBarrierError raised.
ISO weeks start on Mondays, with week 01 being the week containing 4 Jan.
Escape dquote and backslash for use within a quoted-string.
Return a StackSummary object representing a list of pre-processed entries from traceback.
This method is called once, at the conclusion of tree fix-up.
This is only concerned about the comparison of the integer representation of the network addresses.
Return dict of registry keys and values.
Implements the standard interface for version number classes as described above.
Push an input source onto the lexer's input source stack.
If the subclass overrides these it must call the super methods.
The global variable maxlen can be set to an integer indicating the maximum size of a POST request.
We have to peel off this CFWS first to determine which type of word to parse.
Variant of Queue that retrieves most recently added entries first.
outline determines the width of the shapes's outline.
To create code that needs to wait for all queued tasks to be completed, the preferred technique is to use the join() method.
Called when the connection is lost or closed.
Return True if the frozen module is a package.
We match the algorithm used by the built-in frozenset type.
Internal: raise UnsupportedOperation if file is not writable
Return a bool indicating whether this is an 'interactive' stream.
Metaclass for defining Abstract Base Classes (ABCs).
The ARGS parameter lets you specify the argument list directly.
some sub-path exists, but is a file rather than a directory).
'async with lock' statement should be used.
Version numbering for anal retentives and software idealists.
Get the event loop the Server object is attached to.
Print all the one-line module summaries that contain a substring.
All terminal output and filesystem interaction should be done by 'run()'.
Returns the directory component of a pathname
Given the header name and the value provided by the application program, return the (name, value) that should be stored in the model.
This occurs and signals clamped if the exponent of a result has been altered in order to fit the constraints of a specific concrete representation.
Test whether self.path corresponds to a CGI script.
Unless dir is '.', return full filenames with dir prepended.
Install a timer, which calls fun after t milliseconds.
Test whether a path is a mount point
This does not follow the procedure from the RFC to send Telnet IP and Synch; that doesn't seem to work with the servers I've tried.
Only other possible issue is if someone changed the timezone and did not call tz.tzset .
Do basic configuration for the logging system.
All of these are optional and independently controllable.
Ask a static type checker to confirm that the value is of the given type.
See urllib.response.addinfourl for more detail on these properties.
Return whether the file was opened for writing.
Note that uuid1() may compromise privacy since it creates a UUID containing the computer's network address.
This is not like the standard compare, which use their numerical value.
Try to find a loader for the specified module, or the namespace package portions.
Return a list of files in a given directory (default the current).
Request forkserver to create a child process.
Create an object representing an address group.
If b is an integer, the result will be rational.
This class represents a dll exporting functions using the Windows stdcall calling convention, and returning HRESULT.
Once awakened, it re-acquires the lock and returns True.
source expression Try to get source code for the given object and display it.
They cache the compiled regular expressions for speed.
If no breakpoints are set, return an empty list.
Arguments: pen -- a dictionary with some or all of the below listed keys.
Either returns an existing member, or creates a new enum class.
You can then use serverthread.port to get the port number.
if the version was read from a different Python interpreter.
UUID objects (universally unique identifiers) according to RFC 4122.
This class differs from CookieJar only in the format it uses to save and load cookies to and from a file.
For CPython this is the SCM branch from which the Python binary was built.
Removes any existing fragment from URL.
This class is useless unless subclassed.
The readline module is also automatically configured to enable completion for systems that support it.
By passing None as the value of host and port, you can pass NULL to the underlying C API.
Any error opening either file, reading from 'src', or writing to 'dst', raises DistutilsFileError.
Interface to the liblzma compression library.
Abstract base class for time zone info classes.
Called when a header is added to a Message object.
A class to hold ONE (key, value) pair.
Launcher class for Aqua browsers on Mac OS X Optionally specify a browser name on instantiation.
The OS specific modules import the appropriate functions from this module themselves.
Return the IP addresses of the current host.
However, don't disable children of named loggers, as that's probably not what was intended by the user.
The "bunch of stuff" consists of the list of object files supplied as 'objects'.
Depending on the version of Python you're using, there may be a faster one available.
Use of gzip or bzip2 compression is possible.
parsers -- Python wrappers for XML parsers (currently only supports Expat).
Placeholder for a TestCase inside a result.
The coefficient of the result is a rotated copy of the digits in the coefficient of the first operand.
It also contains the Mingw32CCompiler class which handles the mingw32 port of GCC (same as cygwin in no-cygwin mode).
Copy data from one regular mmap-like fd to another by using high-performance sendfile(2) syscall.
Only one import is needed in this form.
Rounds self to ndigits decimal places, defaulting to 0.
Produce a short description of the given thing.
A proactor is a "notify-on-completion" multiplexer.
Each column is only as wide as necessary.
Return a list of (key, message) tuples.
Three things are returned: (args, varargs, varkw), where 'args' is the list of argument names.
This server does NOT support system.methodSignature.
Return a wrapped version of file which provides transparent encoding translation.
- If one dict argument is passed, it is used for both globals and locals.
Words at the same word index as the heading in subsequent lines are then examined to see if they look like MAC addresses.
If you supply bytes as input, all return values will be in bytes.
filters (if provided) should be a sequence of dicts.
Args: tuple1: The first tuple to compare.
To work with plist data in bytes objects, you can use loads() and dumps().
This is a very concrete parse tree; we need to keep every token and even the comments and whitespace between tokens.
The new instance has the same attribute values as the current object, except for the changes passed in as keyword arguments.
The completion should begin with 'text'.
Decrement the task's count of cancellation requests.
Ensure that 'option' is a string; if not defined, set it to 'default'.
An SSLContext holds various SSL-related configuration options and data, such as certificates and possibly a private key.
However, you want the file to be named for the start of the interval, not the current time.
The callable will receive archives to unpack.
Provide a callback function called after each receipt of a telnet option.
Called by constructor to activate the server.
In most situations semaphores are used to guard resources with limited capacity.
It is also possible to use a string or bytearray as a file for both reading and writing.
GET and HEAD also support running CGI scripts.
Get a logger with the specified name (channel name), creating it if it doesn't yet exist.
Returns a tuple of the defragmented URL and the fragment.
Compile a regular expression pattern, returning a Pattern object.
You can use MagicMock without having to configure the magic methods yourself.
For example: with TemporaryDirectory() as tmpdir: ...
Set attributes on the mock through keyword arguments.
Decorator to verify that the module being requested matches the one the loader can handle.
Return True if a handler was found, else False.
- indent: The example's indentation in the DocTest string.
Set a cookie if policy says it's OK to do so.
Run coroutines with staggered start times and take the first to finish.
Set or return the current transformation matrix of the turtle shape.
Return an MH instance for the named folder.
The arguments are: - user: The user name to authenticate with.
Returns pair of connection objects at either end of a pipe
If a regular expression ends with a greedy match (e.g.
Return the footer string for the specified records.
2) A string surrounded by double quotation marks is interpreted as a single argument, regardless of white space contained within.
data should be a sequence or iterable of Real-valued numbers, with at least one value.
Initialize with the path to search on and a variable number of 2-tuples containing the loader and the file suffixes the loader recognizes.
If the future has been cancelled, raises CancelledError.
The format of the returned string is like this: Wed, DD-Mon-YYYY HH:MM:SS GMT
Upgrade an existing stream-based connection to TLS.
But ATTENTION: in user-defined coordinatesystems angles may appear distorted.
Add the default value to the option help message.
Some of this can actually be useful on non-Posix systems too, e.g.
Format a stack trace and the exception information.
Read and return the list of all logical lines remaining in the current file.
Get a token from the input stream (or from stack if it's nonempty)
Schedule a timeout that will trigger at a given loop time.
Set angle measurement units to degrees.
Special case of 'execute()' for operations that process one or more input files and generate one output file.
Changes anything not dundered or not a descriptor.
Called when a test has completed successfully
If size is omitted or negative, read until the end of the chunk.
Coercion rules are currently an implementation detail.
Return the running event loop or None.
When the entire command-line has been successfully parsed, calls the 'run()' method on each command object in turn.
Return the module an object was defined in, or None if not found.
Context manager class to support localcontext().
Invoke the underlying file object's fileno() method.
Keyword Arguments: - mode -- A string indicating how the file is to be opened.
:param optimize: The optimization level for the compiler.
Process a GNU tar extended sparse header, version 0.1.
Internal: raise UnsupportedOperation if file is not readable
Arguments: - sock: Socket to wrap - context: SSL context to use for the encrypted connection Returns: - sock: New, encrypted socket.
Then, in here, you could use a dictionary lookup to get the message ID.
etree -- The ElementTree XML library.
The option -r tells it to recurse down directories found inside explicitly given directories.
mu is the mean, and sigma is the standard deviation.
Note that if the header appeared multiple times, exactly which occurrence gets returned is undefined.
Subclasses of Mock may want to override this to customize the way child mocks are made.
This option is not supported on Windows.
Separate one key-value pair in a mailcap entry.
Raise DuplicateSectionError if a section by the specified name already exists.
True if all counts in self are a subset of those in other.
If filename is a str, bytes, or PathLike object, it gives the name of the file to be opened.
Returns a new path entry list, or None if no adjustment is needed.
Syntax error in a file list template.
Method to return the code object for fullname.
On Posix OSs the method sends SIGTERM to the subprocess.
So the turtles can more easily be used as a visual feedback instrument by the (beginning) programmer.
This is much like a bound, listening socket.
Routines for manipulating RFC2047 encoded words.
This module provides a file interface, classes for incremental (de)compression, and functions for one-shot (de)compression.
If the headers are unknown, raises http.client.ResponseNotReady.
Queries the given executable (defaults to the Python interpreter binary) for various architecture information.
drive or directory names) are ignored.
If so, the first wrap point will be determined and the first line appended to the output text line list.
The mode can be 'r' (default), 'w', 'x' or 'a' for reading, writing, exclusive creation or appending.
The first argument to Annotated must be a valid type.
A single filename may also be given.
Remove the hexadecimal id from a Python object representation.
If it's not a known member, return the value itself.
Send a command and return the response.
If False, read() will raise OSError.
Creates a new Decimal instance from a float but rounding using self as the context.
:param cfile: The target byte compiled file name.
If an optional dictionary is passed in as the second argument, it is used instead of a new dictionary.
Produce the data for a timestamp-based pyc.
Send user name, return response (should indicate password required).
Look through the list of headers and find all lines matching a given header name (and their continuation lines).
set(section, option, value) Set the given option.
True if all counts in self are a proper subset of those in other.
Pass a record to all relevant handlers.
Slope and intercept for simple linear regression.
Open the file in bytes mode, write to it, and close the file.
It can also be used to handle XML-RPC requests in a CGI environment using CGIXMLRPCRequestHandler.
It requires one argument, readline, in the same way as the tokenize() generator.
The claimed start boundary was never found.
encoding specifies the encoding which is to be used for the file.
In order to get this functionality, set the optional argument 'followlinks' to true.
This is outside the formal grammar.
Comment tokens also have a 'content' attribute providing the string found between the parens (including any nested comments) with whitespace preserved.
Returns None if the module cannot be found.
As a special case, accept None and return type(None) instead.
This line number is zero-based, with respect to the beginning of the DocTest.
Given a module name path, return the correct file path and archive name, compiling if necessary.
Get lines of comments immediately preceding an object's source code.
A bounded semaphore checks to make sure its current value doesn't exceed its initial value.
Wrap a coroutine or an awaitable in a future.
Write an .ini-format representation of the configuration state.
Optional method that returns the modification time (an int) for the specified path (a str).
Trying to convert badly formed string.
Ensure changes to file f are physically on disk.
The viewing command is stored as the value with the key "view", and the rest of the fields produce key-value pairs in the dict.
'macros', if given, must be a list of macro definitions.
If only one argument is supplied, round a finite Decimal instance self to the nearest integer.
A version number consists of a series of numbers, separated by either periods or strings of letters.
Handler instances dispatch logging events to specific destinations.
Decode filename (an os.PathLike, bytes, or str) from the filesystem encoding with 'surrogateescape' error handler, return str unchanged.
After the last line of the last file has been read, this function has no effect.
Optional arg isjunk is None (the default), or a one-argument function that takes a sequence element and returns true iff the element is junk.
Internal classes used by the gzip, lzma and bz2 modules
Extract the test sources from a doctest docstring as a script.
Check if TarFile is still open, and if the operation's mode corresponds to TarFile's mode.
- server response string corresponding to response code (multiline responses are converted to a single, multiline string).
The maximum amount of data to be received at once is specified by nbytes.
cwd: Sets the current directory before the child is executed.
If not given, it is taken from f.name.
Abstract base class for path entry finders used by PathFinder.
Get the first header value for 'name', or return 'default'
Return tuple (head, tail) where tail is everything after the final slash.
package A Python package or the name of a Python package whose directory should be used as the base directory for module relative paths.
data is a string containing the entire full text of the message, headers (if supplied) and all.
Instance attributes: name : string the full name of the extension, including any packages -- ie.
It's a subclass of ImportError, so it can be caught as ImportError, too.
The subnets which join to make the current subnet.
Turn a datetime into a date string as specified in RFC 2822.
A non-quoted string could have quotes in the middle.
Return string representation of the number in scientific notation.
Return the text passed in , but with variables replaced.
Comments may appear on their own in an otherwise empty line or may be entered in lines holding values or section names.
Instances may be added, yielding new instances with any non-default values from the right hand operand overriding those in the left hand operand.
In other words, if 'target' exists and is newer than every file in 'sources', return false; otherwise return true.
If the semaphore is released too many times it's a sign of a bug.
For non-hashable arguments, the original function is used as a fallback.
Define a preprocessor macro for all compilations driven by this compiler object.
When a shared memory block is no longer needed by any process, the unlink() method should be called to ensure proper cleanup.
automatically close this channel once the outgoing queue is empty
At the Python interactive prompt, calling help(thing) on a Python object documents the object, and calling help() starts up an interactive help session.
Run doc tests but raise an exception as soon as there is a failure.
When instantiating such a TestCase subclass, specify in the constructor arguments the name of the test method that the instance is to execute.
This class provides a set of methods to read, parse and answer questions about a single robots.txt file.
- There is a method, setworldcoordinates(), to install a user defined coordinate-system for the TurtleScreen.
Base64 content transfer encoding per RFCs 2045-2047.
Return a byte string representation or raise a KeyError.
Coroutine to wait until service is closed.
Hook method for setting up the test fixture before exercising it.
If any of 'suffix', 'prefix' and 'dir' are not None, they must be the same type.
When applied between a WSGI server and a WSGI application, this middleware will check for WSGI compliance on a number of levels.
This method just returns the passed-in record.
We check for that and add a defect.
Handle alias expansion and ';;' separator.
When a new SB command is found, old unread SB data will be discarded.
Parses a string as a float according to the locale settings.
lookupmodule() translates (possibly incomplete) file or module name into an absolute file name.
Raise IndexError if list is empty or index is out of range.
Base class for all exceptions that include an SMTP error code.
Copy a file respecting verbose, dry-run and force flags.
Header whose value consists of a single timestamp.
when hostnames resolve to the same IP address), the server is only bound once to that host.
Each new command terminates the options for the previous command.
If true, accumulate any interspersed non-option arguments in 'largs'.
The algorithm inserts ABCs where their functionality is introduced, i.e.
Guarantees that the returned values are of the correct type, i.e.
Returns an indication of the class of the operand.
Errors raised while parsing the command-line are caught by ArgumentParser and emitted as command-line messages.
Compare two sequences of lines; generate the delta as a unified diff.
ValueError: expected 7 bytes in a unicodestring8, but only 6 remain
Draw a dot with diameter size, using color.
Override if you want different behaviour.
Convert data to floats and compute the geometric mean.
Support for running coroutines in parallel with staggered start times.
Parse a bytes string into a Message object model.
level Set the root logger level to the specified level.
DO NOT change the turtle's heading (direction of movement).
XXX TO DO: - seems to contain a bug when updating...
Return the total number of bytes which were sent.
When rotating, rotate the current log.
Override this if you want to specify your own categories.
Mapping class that references keys weakly.
Subclass of ValueError raised by TopologicalSorter.prepare if cycles exist in the working graph.
At the end of the HTML generation, the tab characters will be replaced with a nonbreakable space.
Returns True if the event loop was closed.
Add 'libname' to the list of libraries that will be included in all links driven by this compiler object.
The annotations are returned as a dictionary.
First try various environment variables, then the password database.
For the sake of comparison, non-existing elements are considered to be infinite.
Return the message's content-disposition if it exists, or None.
- want: The expected output from running the source code (either from stdout, or a traceback in case of exception).
Return false if cookies should not be returned, given cookie domain.
str() returns the formatted headers, complete with end line, suitable for direct HTTP transmission.
Turtle graphics is a popular way for introducing programming to kids.
Return True if mode is from a socket.
An equality assertion for ordered sequences (like lists and tuples).
This will be connected with the first point.
Lookup up the codec for the given encoding and return its StreamWriter class or factory function.
Raise EOFError if the connection is closed.
Return True if s may contain surrogate-escaped binary data.
If only two tokens are passed, the resulting output is poor.
Regular expressions can contain both special and ordinary characters.
Note that unlike the Python sys.version, the returned value for the Python version will always include the patchlevel (it defaults to '.0').
Render in text a class tree as returned by inspect.getclasstree().
Read and parse a filename or an iterable of filenames.
Handlers can optionally use Formatter instances to format records as desired.
Checks proxy settings gathered from the environment, if specified, or from the MacOSX framework SystemConfiguration.
In that case the last element is None.
If the attribute isn't callable (the default is None), the name is returned unchanged.
Return the line number which generated the invocant node.
Retrieve the path to a TZif file from a key.
Called when an empty line is entered in response to the prompt.
The argument may be a module, class, method, or function.
compresslevel, if given, must be a number between 1 and 9.
A ZipFile subclass that ensures that implied directories are always included in the namelist.
index is the position of the character considering only ordinals up to and including char, and pos is the position in the full string.
Return local time as an aware datetime object.
Return a string used for identification purposes only.
Entries in the week lists are day numbers.
Like itermonthdates(), but will yield day numbers.
Start a TLS session on the active connection as specified in RFC 2595.
Utilities for comparing files and directories.
If you provide the keyfile and certfile parameters, the identity of the SMTP server and client can be checked.
Only available in the bottom-most frame.
Nodes are only checked once as the tree is retraversed.
Extension is everything from the last dot to the end, ignoring leading dots.
callback: An optional single parameter callable that is called on each line after it is sent.
Day numbers outside this month are zero.
If the header does not occur, an empty list is returned.
tabnanny -- Detection of ambiguous indentation For the time being this module is intended to be called as a script.
Represent an address as 16 packed bytes in network (big-endian) order.
If optional argument package is supplied, only imports will be returned.
When creating a breakpoint, its associated filename should be in canonical form.
- charjunk: A function that accepts a character (string of length 1), and returns true iff the character is junk.
A more tenable assumption is that the 484 members of that age group are evenly distributed between 30 and 40.
Represent an address as 4 packed bytes in network (big-endian) order.
The data argument should be valid URL encoded data.
Append module search paths for third-party packages to sys.path.
Returns the number of bytes read (0 for EOF).
Write text at the current turtle position.
Strip the annotations from a given type.
This class is used for creating reports from data generated by the Profile class.
Execute events until the queue is empty.
On AIX, the buildtime searchpath is stored in the executable.
Fill a single paragraph of text, returning a new string.
We just need to monitor its status.
If strict is False then literal control characters are allowed in the string.
This method runs on a separate, internal thread.
This method installs the default scripts into the environment being created.
default: default value minval: minimum value for input maxval: maximum value for input The number input must be in the range minval ..
Return a DocTest for the given object, if it defines a docstring; otherwise, return None.
The object is not altered in any way by this function; you can continue updating the object after calling this function.
"notBefore" or "notAfter" dates must use UTC (RFC 5280).
Copy Maildir-specific state to message insofar as possible.
Return True if the operand is infinite; otherwise return False.
The ninth argument is an optional function to format the sequence of arguments.
Return True if the operand is finite; otherwise return False.
Parse a string into a Message object model.
filemode Specifies the mode to open the file, if filename is specified (if filemode is unspecified, it defaults to 'a').
Returns an iterable of nodes in a topological order.
There is no runtime checking of these properties.
Get the mapping of arguments to values.
NOTE: This does not distinguish between the different possible classes (text vs.
Inspect a new MHMessage and update sequences appropriately.
Raised when a registry operation with the archiving and unpacking registries fails
The walk is performed in depth-first order.
Contents: The following aliases dictionary contains mappings of all IANA character set names for which the Python core library provides codecs.
Lock file f using lockf and dot locking.
- Our heappop() method returns the smallest item, not the largest.
encoding and errors must not be specified if string is a bytes object.
EOFError is raised when the data is found to be truncated.
Sigma is scaled with the absolute value of the constant.
Once the file is closed, any other operation on it will raise a ValueError.
If a filename is passed, it is used as the temporary file location.
Read configuration from a given string.
If no Distutils commands were found on the command line, raises DistutilsArgError.
Simple HTTP request handler with GET and HEAD commands.
Export the Python grammar and symbols.
Change the messages that correspond to certain keys.
A boolean value indicating whether this thread is a daemon thread.
This is called before running the tests in each file.
optional : boolean specifies that a build failure in the extension should not abort the build process, but simply not install the failing extension.
Must override this method if the class constructor signature does not accept an iterable for an input.
Read data from stdout and stderr, until end-of-file is reached.
Create a folder and return a Maildir instance representing it.
The exported functions can be accessed as attributes, or by indexing with the function name.
Otherwise, a value is substituted in.
This module exports the following functions: match Match a regular expression pattern to the beginning of a string.
Optional argument: angle -- number Rotate the turtleshape to point in the direction specified by angle, regardless of its current tilt-angle.
Intersection is the minimum of corresponding counts.
If a timeout is passed, then this is now the default timeout for all ftp socket operations for this instance.
When the connection is closed, the underlying socket is closed.
The action function may be an instance method so it has another way to reference private data (besides global variables).
Compares two operands using their abstract representation.
Override match() to insist on a leaf node.
This is used in the WeakValueDictionary to avoid having to create a function object for each key stored in the mapping.
Returns an import statement and calls a method of the module: import module module.name()
See comment in Future for more details.
Delete a breakpoint by its index in Breakpoint.bpbynumber.
The message attribute of the record is computed using LogRecord.getMessage().
Minimal read-only file object that prepends a string to the contents of an actual file.
Win32 uses the registry to store proxies.
A quoted-string could contain a comma.
Get an option value for a given section.
Add a callback to be run when the future becomes done.
Tokenizes a string suppressing significant whitespace.
A class used to extract the DocTests that are relevant to a given object, from its docstring and the docstrings of its contained objects.
Write minimal HTTP headers and dump all information provided to the script in HTML form.
Reads up to a buffer's worth of data if size is negative.
The test runner's display output can be controlled in two ways.
Block until all items in the queue have been gotten and processed.
TODO: Fill out more detailed documentation on the operators.
Complete HTTP server with GET, HEAD and POST commands.
Return a Class after nesting within ob.
Get the effective level for this logger.
Returns the first operand after adding the second value its exp.
This supports dependency tracking, but only at a coarse granularity.
Prints a graphviz diagram of the BM automaton(for debugging)
Arguments (if given): a color string or three numbers in the range 0..colormode or a 3-tuple of such numbers.
The parser should not, insofar as practical, raise any errors.
Return the key associated to a registered file object.
Return an iterator which yields the paths matching a pathname pattern.
Arguments (only fullname is required): fullname: the file to byte-compile ddir: if given, the directory name compiled in to the byte-code file.
In some types of audio files, if the setpos() method is not used, the seek() method is not necessary.
The request handler class must be different for datagram or stream services.
This is a descriptor, used to define attributes that act differently when accessed through an instance and through a class.
If normalization fails, the original name is returned unchanged.
Raises: ValueError: If the integer is negative or too large to be an IPv4 IP address.
Create and return a new event loop object according to this policy's rules.
This is only implemented for CGI scripts.
Then log the message in the NT event log.
The count of unfinished tasks goes up whenever an item is added to the queue.
Tabs in 'text' are expanded with string.expandtabs(), and all other whitespace characters (including newline) are converted to space.
If 'file' is not supplied, TextFile creates its own using 'io.open()'.
The backslash is stripped from any two-character escape sequence, leaving only the escaped character.
If a string is supplied it is split with "shlex", and the result is used as the new sys.argv.
When the timeout argument is not present or None, the operation will block until the thread terminates.
If it cannot be represented this way, prepend a pax extended header sequence with supplement information.
Arguments: - date: a date or datetime object Return: - resp: server response if successful - list: list of newsgroup names
Modeled after the scrolled canvas class from Grayons's Tkinter book.
escape Backslash all non-alphanumerics in a string.
Missing counts are treated as zero.
Construct a PurePath from one or several strings and or existing PurePath objects.
If either operand is a NaN then the general rules apply.
Return a sorted list of all available fix names in the given package.
For incremental decompression, use a BZ2Decompressor object instead.
This must be called to make sure that any underlying resource is freed.
Return an int indicating the new absolute position.
If the argument contains a path segment delimiter (e.g.
:return: True if a lazy load is registered in the cache, otherwise False.
Release the import lock regardless of any raised exceptions.
If multiple cycles exist, only one undefined choice among them will be reported and included in the exception.
Make a link for an identifier, given name-to-URL mappings.
If the module is not specified or is None, then the test finder will attempt to automatically determine the correct module.
The IOCP event loop can use these instead of socket objects.
Returns: An IPv4Interface or IPv6Interface object.
Set the list of labels on the message.
For that reason, you generally don't want to save these values across threads, as they apply only to the thread they came from.
When an exception occurs, self.showtraceback() is called to display a traceback.
Note that this argument is incompatible with 'filename' - if both are present, 'stream' is ignored.
Abstract base class to define the interface that must be implemented by real compiler classes.
The constructor is designed to work with FileFinder.
You can use these objects to do transparent transcodings from e.g.
Called when a file descriptor associated with the child process is closed.
This is only useful to add pickle support for extension types defined in C, not for instances of user-defined classes.
Fail the test unless the text matches the regular expression.
Returns True if obj is a descriptor, False otherwise.
Convert string to hex-escaped ASCII string.
Return or set the pencolor and fillcolor.
The functions operate by translating the pattern into a regular expression.
Create a new completer for the command line.
Returns a shifted copy of a, b times.
Otherwise it will be encoded using the utf-8 charset and a language of ''.
The effect of setstate((b"", 0)) must be equivalent to reset().
If the fixture may be used for many test cases, create as many test methods as are needed.
num, the number of the mouse-button defaults to 1 Every sequence of mouse-move-events on a turtle is preceded by a mouse-click event on that turtle.
t.open(file, rw) returns a pipe or file object open for reading or writing; the file is the other end of the pipeline.
In any event, they are intended as an escape hatch for those occasions when the abstract compiler framework doesn't cut the mustard.
Return numerical port if a valid number is found after ':'.
Check that the current thread is the thread running the event loop.
Class for safely making an HTML representation of a Python object.
Items of sys.path that are not (unicode or 8-bit) strings referring to existing directories are ignored.
Attributes: args: The list or str args passed to run().
Refactors a parse tree (modifying the tree in place).
Returns: A string identifying the zone of the address if specified, else None.
Return True if text is a host domain name.
Produce text documentation for a given module object.
If a host appears multiple times (possibly indirectly e.g.
In one pass, compute the mean and sample standard deviation as floats.
Event loop using a proactor and related classes.
Without expression, clear all display expressions for the current frame.
Helper class to read values from the registry
Proper coding would call for locks to prevent changing the locale while locale-dependent code is running.
Allow for specialized date formatting with the optional datefmt argument.
S DOTALL "." matches any character at all, including the newline.
This includes 'CFWS', which is herein included in the general class of whitespace tokens.
the path info, the query, etc., has a different set of reserved characters that must be quoted.
This class doesn't need to be instanced directly when used by SimpleXMLRPCServer but it can be instanced when used by the MultiPathXMLRPCServer
Subtract count, but keep only results with positive counts.
The terminal nodes of the structure are Terminal objects, which are subclasses of str.
It supports both 8-bit and Unicode strings; both the pattern and the strings being processed can contain null bytes and characters outside the US ASCII range.
Start debugging with a Bdb instance from the caller's frame.
Return True if pen is down, False if it's up.
The subclass name must be FixFooBar where FooBar is the result of removing underscores and capitalizing the words of the fix name.
Remove all universal build arguments from config vars
Wrap a single paragraph of text, returning a list of wrapped lines.
Log a message with severity 'ERROR' on the root logger.
Return all members of an object as (name, value) pairs sorted by name.
This is important for library code, which may contain code to log events.
Checks whether this line is typed at the normal prompt or in a breakpoint command list definition.
Initialization method (called by class instantiation).
The repeat() method is a convenience to call timeit() multiple times and return a list of results.
Notice that this has no effect on platforms that don't support os.symlink.
Return all lines with breakpoints for filename.
Please note that comments get stripped off when reading configuration files.
Fast version of a heappush followed by a heappop.
Call unlink() on all tracked shared memory, terminate the Server.
Delegate a warning call to the underlying logger.
Parse enough of a Python file to recognize imports and class and function definitions, and to find out the superclasses of a class.
If no finder is available, store None.
The standard header parsers register defects for RFC compliance issues, for obsolete RFC syntax, and for unrecoverable parsing errors.
Meta path import for built-in modules.
Find the n smallest elements in a dataset.
Install support for sending connections and sockets between processes
distutils.pypirc Provides the PyPIRCCommand class, the base class for the command classes that uses .pypirc in the distutils.command package.
In the other direction, data is read from the underlying stream using a Reader instance and then encoded and returned to the caller.
Multiple commands may be entered on a single line, separated by the pair ';;'.
Compares two operands using their abstract representation ignoring sign.
stream must be a file-like object open for reading.
Return the next possible completion for 'text'.
Delegate a critical call to the underlying logger.
Set item to the first item in the displaylist, so it will be drawn below any other item .
Returns a dialect (or None) corresponding to the sample
encoding If specified together with a filename, this encoding is passed to the created FileHandler, causing it to be used when the file is opened.
Otherwise, use the default formatter for the module.
Python files are assumed to have a .py extension.
size indicates the approximate maximum number of decoded bytes or code points to read for decoding.
Encoding Aliases Support This module is used by the encodings package search function to map encodings names to module names.
Match the pattern's content to the node's children.
Recognize image file formats based on their first few bytes.
Also, add an appropriate Content-Transfer-Encoding header.
Display the syntax error that just occurred.
Helper to split the netmask and raise AddressValueError if needed
RFC 2368: "The mailto URL scheme", by P.Hoffman , L Masinter, J.
This child watcher polls process file descriptors (pidfds) to await child process termination.
An exception can be raised to indicate that transmission was attempted, but failed.
These will be sorted in the order they appeared in the original header list, or were added to this instance, and may contain duplicates.
If the internal flag is true on entry, return immediately.
Body-encode a string by converting it first to bytes.
This function allows for partial sends which can happen when the network is busy.
the rights that I have on mailbox).
Transforms a function into a generic function, which can have different behaviours depending upon the type of its first argument.
Get a list of records for a frame and all higher (calling) frames.
If 'limit' is omitted or None, all entries are extracted.
True if filenames must be checked case-insensitively.
distutils.filelist Provides the FileList class, used for poking about the filesystem and building lists of files.
:param dfile: Purported file name, i.e.
If closefd is False, the underlying file descriptor will be kept open when the file is closed.
Unlock the mailbox if it is locked.
The lines passed in by the email package may contain surrogateescaped binary data.
Copy docstring from SSLObject to SSLSocket
It's also the base class for CGIHandler, which just uses sys.stdin, os.environ, and so on.
Link a bunch of stuff together to create an executable or shared library file.
When the specified number of tasks have started waiting, they are all simultaneously awoken.
When EOF was reached while no bytes read, empty bytes object is returned.
If, for some perverse reason, you need to parse command-line arguments simultaneously in different threads, use different OptionParser instances.
Header-encode a string by converting it first to bytes.
If for some reason the file cannot be written because of permissions, fail silently.
This expectation is not checked at runtime.
Wrap any raised struct.errors in a ConversionError.
Called whenever an index is needed, such as in slicing
The debugger will not step into frames that originate in a module that matches one of these patterns.
Unregister name of resource with resource tracker.
Policy objects are immutable, but a new Policy object can be created with only certain values changed by calling the Policy instance with keyword arguments.
The new class instance is based on fileobj, which can be a regular file, an io.BytesIO object, or any other object which simulates a file.
Time 'number' executions of the main statement.
This is an "internal" API, intended only for use by a parser.
Implements the HMAC algorithm as described by RFC 2104.
'forward' method, which canvas itself has inherited...
A class that manages the comparison of 2 directories.
If the future is already done when this method is called, raises InvalidStateError.
You can find legacy support for older versions in distutils.msvc9compiler and distutils.msvccompiler.
Return a list of (frame, lineno) in a stack trace and a size.
Signaling NaNs take precedence over quiet NaNs.
The options occur in the list in the same order in which they were found, thus allowing multiple occurrences.
assert the mock has been called with the specified arguments.
Find modules used by a script, using introspection.
To be used only internally with digest() and hexdigest().
True if filenames must be checked case-insensitively and ignore environment flags are not set.
Usually user implements protocols that derived from BaseProtocol like Protocol or ProcessProtocol.
Lookup up the codec for the given encoding and return its IncrementalEncoder class or factory function.
The optional protocol parameter specifies the version of the pickle protocol.
Depending on the implementation, not all source files will necessarily be compiled, but all corresponding object filenames will be returned.
Return a string that resets the CGI and browser to a known state.
Return the compiler option to add 'dir' to the list of directories searched for libraries.
Make a character or block device called targetpath.
A final set of unbound names that could not be resolved is also provided.
Check for errors before writing a file to the archive.
pstdev Population standard deviation of data.
This method is primarily intended to be able to recover from decoding errors.
The other arguments are the same as for the Popen constructor.
If no XML data is given then it is read from stdin.
(2) name is an arbitrary string and shape is a tuple of pairs of coordinates.
This routine should be called exactly once.
Connection class based on an arbitrary file descriptor (Unix only), or a socket handle (Windows).
Make this path a symlink pointing to the target path.
Args: obj: the starting object attr: the name of the chaining attribute Yields: Each successive object in the chain.
Compares self to the other operand numerically.
This is normally what the source is rotated to, e.g.
Push item onto heap, maintaining the heap invariant.
either (name,value) 2-tuple or a (name,) tuple.
Register a typeid with the manager type
Return None if the tracemalloc module is not tracing memory allocations or did not trace the allocation of the object.
A true value indicates that blanks should be retained as blank strings.
Handle a single XML-RPC request passed through a CGI post method.
Uses email.message.Message to create a 7bit clean string representation of the message.
Arguments: fun -- a function with no arguments key -- a string: key (e.g.
Delete an arbitrary (key, message) pair and return it.
If it is zero on entry, block, waiting until some other coroutine has called release() to make it larger than 0, and then return True.
Return the magic tag for .pyc files.
When invoked with the blocking argument set to false, do not block.
It must be called at most once per thread object.
Represent and manipulate single IPv6 Addresses.
There is no noticeable overhead when handling a big number of children (O(1) each time a child terminates).
Function to format a warning the standard way.
Note that the site-local address space has been deprecated by RFC 3879.
Return the IP address of the magic hostname 'localhost'.
Perform some action that affects the outside world (eg.
Each entry contains a tuple of the SMTP error code and the accompanying error message sent by the server.
'command' should be a command name (string) or command object.
Requires self.user and self.password to be set.
Return True if it is a block device.
Return a list of object filenames, one per source filename in 'sources'.
This code will do that, detecting cornercases to prevent duplicates or cases where it wouldn't make sense to the end user.
If charset is given but not language, the string is encoded using the empty string for language.
Clear all references to local variables in the frames of a traceback.
If the URL contained no fragments, the second element is the empty string.
Manages the correct rendering of the turtle with respect to its shape, resizemode, stretch and tilt etc.
Return the date formatted according to ISO.
Returns a tuple containing the path to the newly created data file as well as the resulting HTTPMessage object.
For converting None to type(None), and strings to ForwardRef.
A class used to parse strings containing doctest examples.
Find the stack frame of the caller so that we can note the source file name, line number and function name.
Set maxheaderlen to zero to disable header wrapping.
'buffering' -- the buffer size argument to io.open (default -1).
This class is meant to be subclassed, with the subclass adding visitor methods.
The info field is padded with NUL bytes to the header size.
Evaluate an expression node or a string containing only a Python expression.
Receive a handle over a local connection.
Optionally, implement a getrandbits() method so that randrange() can cover arbitrarily large ranges.
Launcher class for Google Chrome browser.
If any exception is raised, the caller should assume that self.path was rejected as invalid and act accordingly.
A condition variable allows one or more threads to wait until they are notified by another thread.
Construct a text differencer, with optional filters.
Accepts the same value as the builtin open() function.
Class used to generate pydoc HTML document for a server
Type a line containing just 'end' to terminate the commands.
Return the repr to use for the module.
Return whether this thread is a daemon.
Data is read as bytes: boundaries and line ends must be converted to bytes for comparisons.
ValueError: no newline found when trying to read stringnl Embedded escapes are undone in the result.
Return true if the object is a user-defined function.
Produce the data for a hash-based pyc.
Optional charset sets the message's default character set.
The first argument, FORMAT, is a format string for the message to be logged.
Merge in the data from another CoverageResults
In addition, exception handling is done here.
Python 'undefined' Codec This codec will always raise a ValueError exception when being used.
Locate an object by name or dotted path, importing as necessary.
If the calling thread has not acquired the lock when this method is called, a RuntimeError is raised.
Otherwise, it will call warnings.formatwarning and will log the resulting string to a warnings logger named "py.warnings" with level logging.WARNING.
issubclass(cls, abc) returns True for the class itself but returns False for all its direct base classes.
Test if the address is reserved for site-local.
This is particularly important for stream services where each client can potentially be connected for a long time (if threads or subprocesses cannot be used).
If size is None, no undobuffer is present.
Once awakened or timed out, it re-acquires the lock and returns.
The result after an underflow will be a subnormal number rounded, if necessary, so that its exponent is not less than Etiny.
An object-oriented interface to .netrc files.
Ctrl-B Cursor left, wrapping to previous line if appropriate.
Run the test without collecting errors in a TestResult
Normal distribution of a random variable
Each entry is a 2-tuple containing a class and a tuple of its base classes.
The function should then set the Content-Transfer-Encoding header itself to whatever is appropriate.
Locale strings are passed directly to the C lib.
Remove the specified handler from this logger.
Create the generator for message flattening.
This is initialized with a dictionary-like object.
It will take care of creating and removing temporary files if they are necessary to hold intermediate data.
For a complete description of this module see the Python documentation.
Given a list of linesep terminated strings constituting the lines of a single header, return the (name, value) tuple that should be stored in the model.
This can happen because of usage of programs such as newsyslog and logrotate which perform log file rotation.
Format an argument spec from the 4 values returned by getargvalues.
Read a binary file and parse its contents into a Message object model.
Use the index value directly instead.
Returns an object with a file-like interface.
Requires that the metaclass is ABCMeta or derived from it.
'prefix' is a string to output on the front of every module name on output.
Semaphores also support the context management protocol.
The struct packing format used by all currently stored items.
Uses fileConfig() to do the grunt work.
The record which was being processed is passed in to this method.
If 'file' is omitted or None, the output goes to sys.stderr; otherwise 'file' should be an open file or file-like object with a write() method.
The central part of the internal API.
At runtime, Any should not be used with instance checks.
Cache the module name and the path to the file found by the finder.
Configure image item as to draw image object at position (x,y) on canvas)
Return a Maildir instance for the named folder.
In that case, if newline was found, complete line including newline will be removed from internal buffer.
These can equivalently be given as "rb", "wb", "xb" and "ab" respectively.
Sometimes this can be computed faster than the pair of operations.
The most common solution for multiple ABI is multiple directories.
The encoder must be able to handle zero length input and return an empty object of the output object type in this situation.
Deep copy operation on arbitrary Python objects.
See the "install" command for an example.
This is a best effort method which relies on the spec's signature, if available, or falls back on the arguments themselves.
This takes a binary file for writing a pickle data stream.
kwargs is a dictionary containing additional information.
Lookup up the codec for the given encoding and return its StreamReader class or factory function.
Get the quota root's resource usage and limits.
The reply form of the HTTP 1.x protocol again has three parts: 1.
Raise InvalidFileException in case of error, otherwise return the root object.
Helper to provide extensibility for pickle.
History, breakpoints, actions and debugger options are preserved.
Block attempts to reassign Enum members.
The symbol to use for separating the query arguments.
The actual database must be opened using one of the "bsddb" modules "open" routines (i.e.
Provides screen oriented methods like bgcolor etc.
The StreamReader may use different error handling schemes by providing the errors keyword argument.
Return a Handle: an opaque object with a cancel() method that can be used to cancel the call.
Produce text documentation for a data object.
Get a copy of the value of the referent
Return list of successfully read files.
The operand must be a logical number.
Get information about a frame or traceback object.
Get the watcher for child processes.
It is present as a keyword argument to maintain memory of the current line numbers between calls of this function.
With no arguments, return a dictionary of all configuration variables relevant for the current platform.
The specifier should be a standard format specifier, with the form described in PEP 3101.
The sqlite3 extension module provides a DB-API 2.0 (PEP 249) compliant interface to the SQLite library, and requires SQLite 3.7.15 or newer.
the angle between the orientation of the turtleshape and the heading of the turtle (its direction of movement).
For example, f(3.0) and f(3) will be treated as distinct calls with distinct results.
Return the dict for the current thread.
Flush, if appropriately configured, set the target to None and lose the buffer.
There are also many ways to override parts of doctest's default behaviors.
If check is True and the exit code was non-zero, it raises a CalledProcessError.
If the result must be inexact, it is rounded using the round-half-even algorithm.
Takes optional type, content, and name.
'zero one tree four'.split(), 'Original', 'Current', ...
Return socket instance used to connect to IMAP4 server.
Afterward we splice the leading CFWS, if any, into the parsed sub-token.
Return True if the keyed message exists, False otherwise.
The implementation is designed to flexibly follow RFC5322 rules.
This attribute is only available if an encoding was specified as parameter.
Events are specified by tuples (time, priority, action, argument, kwargs).
Add 'dir' to the list of directories that will be searched for shared libraries at runtime.
Update a cache entry and return its list of lines.
Possible keys: - 'mtime' (mandatory) is the numeric timestamp of last source code modification; - 'size' (optional) is the size in bytes of the source code.
The configurator base class which defines some useful defaults.
Used as the default canvas, which pops up automatically when using turtle graphics functions or the Turtle class.
WSGI-related types for static type checking
Copy an entire directory tree 'src' to a new location 'dst'.
At runtime it is equivalent to a plain dict.
Generate an HTML index for a directory of modules.
The SMTP server didn't accept the data.
Calculate the default directory to use for temporary files.
Return the colormode or set it to 1.0 or 255.
Just like self.assertTrue(a not in b), but with a nicer default message.
Decorator to indicate that annotations are not type hints.
The objects used by the site module to add custom builtins.
BytesIO is a simple stream of in-memory bytes.
Reusable flow control logic for StreamWriter.drain().
A 2 dimensional vector class, used as a helper class for implementing turtle graphics.
None: Disabled for security reasons False: Disabled by user (command line option) True: Safe and enabled
Return true if (and only if) cookie should be returned to server.
For top-level modules, the parent module's path is sys.path.
If the stream has an 'encoding' attribute, it is used to determine how to do the output to the stream.
Lookup up the codec for the given encoding and return its encoder function.
Any positional arguments after the callback will be passed to the callback when it is called.
Assert that two multi-line strings are equal.
Currently a proactor is only implemented on Windows with IOCP.
When surrogates were used in the input to encode bytes, these are decoded back to bytes for output.
Return a list of option names for the given section name.
'kwonlydefaults' is a dictionary mapping names from kwonlyargs to defaults.
A pure Python implementation of import.
Return True if the operand is subnormal; otherwise return False.
Return the file descriptor of the underlying socket.
Create this file with the given access mode, if it doesn't exist.
Return the charset parameter of the Content-Type header.
Connect to a remote socket at address.
The exception is lines containing non-ascii binary data.
Invoke user function and return trace function for return event.
Copy Babyl-specific state to message insofar as possible.
Arguments are as for mkstemp, except that the 'text' argument is not accepted.
Stop holding a reference to the TestCase at index.
If no module is found, return None.
Run statement under profiler, supplying your own globals and locals, optionally saving results in filename.
This asks the thread to terminate, and then waits for it to do so.
Fill the cache of potential modules and packages for this directory.
Arguments: width: as integer a size in pixels, as float a fraction of the screen.
The output will be truncated if very long.
The errors for each recipient are accessible through the attribute 'recipients', which is a dictionary of exactly the same sort as SMTP.sendmail() returns.
Push 'line' (a string) onto an internal buffer that will be checked by future 'readline()' calls.
Optional ndiff arguments may be passed to this function and they in turn will be passed to ndiff.
Mark the future done and set an exception.
True if all counts in self are a proper superset of those in other.
Interfaces for launching and remotely controlling web browsers.
Return a relative version of a path
Convert raw node information to a Node or Leaf instance.
Put a parsed URL back together again.
Made a separate function to make it easier to override in experiments (e.g.
Return an instance of the FileInput class, which can be iterated.
Convert date to extended time tuple.
This class implements reentrant lock objects.
Implementing this method allows for the writing of bytecode files.
Return a string representing the one-way hash of a password, with a salt prepended.
If there is only a single argument and its data type is known to cache its hash value, then that argument is returned without a wrapper.
Stop the background thread and clear registered resources.
Must NOT be used if a script is run from within IDLE in -n mode (No subprocess) - for interactive use of turtle graphics.
The task may also return a value or raise a different exception.
- required -- True if the action must always be specified at the command line.
Create a Future object attached to the loop.
This class exists to allow virtual environment creation to be customized.
If it is unavailable, using it will raise a NotImplementedError.
filenames is a list of the names of the non-directory files in dirpath.
SMTP 'mail' command -- begins mail xfer session.
Only finders (see importlib.abc.MetaPathFinder and importlib.abc.PathEntryFinder) should modify ModuleSpec instances.
Ask a static type checker to reveal the inferred type of an expression.
Page through text by invoking a program on a temporary file.
Wait until a condition evaluates to True.
It's pretty much like compare(), but all NaNs signal, with signaling NaNs taking precedence over quiet NaNs.
Returns: A boolean, True if the address is within one of the reserved IPv6 Network ranges.
If it is not None, it must be a callable that accepts a timer function and returns another timer function (used for unit testing).
For real filenames, the canonical form is a case-normalized (on case insensitive filesystems) absolute path.
after any option assignments from the command-line or from other commands have been done.
A message had a continuation line as its first header line.
Return a new path with the file name changed.
If factory is None the default task factory will be set.
The input to the entire conversion may also be read from a disk file or from an open file, and similar for its output.
If the exit code was non-zero it raises a CalledProcessError.
If an enum member name is used twice, an error is raised; duplicate values are not checked for.
The end result of the copy is that every file in 'src' is copied to 'dst', and directories under 'src' are recursively copied to 'dst'.
:param factory: A callable which will be called to instantiate a log record.
Bind fun to key-release event of key.
The protocol recognizes three parts to a request: 1.
It works by decorating each test method in the class.
In case an internal error is detected, the -3 element is used as the function name.
Encode a long to a two's complement little-endian binary string.
'ZipImportError is raised if 'archivepath' doesn't point to a valid Zip archive.
A message claimed to be a multipart but had no boundary parameter.
This handler sends events to a queue.
The count of elements not in the Counter is zero.
Use resolve() to get the canonical path to a file.
Write HTML documentation to a file in the current directory.
Open bzip2 compressed tar archive name for reading or writing.
Enters the supplied async context manager.
Return the login name of the file owner.
This represents a generic version of type 'origin' with type arguments 'params'.
If x is already in a, insert it to the right of the rightmost x.
If you are using your own levels you will either need to override this method or place a suitable dictionary in the handler's typemap attribute.
If not specified it will automatically be set to True on UNIX.
Unicode objects for most builtin codecs.
The current order of paths is maintained.
Returns the base 10 logarithm of the operand.
Non thread-safe context manager to change the current working directory.
The responsibility of writing type-safe type guards is left to the user.
Return None if 'lib' wasn't found in any of the specified directories.
The IncrementalEncoder may use different error handling schemes by providing the errors keyword argument.
Return a suite of all test cases given a string specifier.
This is useful for long-running web spiders that need to check for new robots.txt files periodically.
'fullname' must be the fully qualified (dotted) module name.
Other bytes-like objects are accepted as method arguments too.
Compute Content-Length or switch to chunked encoding if possible
Draw a rectangle with corners at the provided upper-left and lower-right coordinates.
Based on Martin Richard's asynctest project.
Use port '0' to start the server on an arbitrary port.
Convert a possible numeric value to an IntEnum member.
The DEFAULT section is not acknowledged.
Note the order of arguments (link, target) is the reverse of os.symlink.
Base class for buffered IO objects.
Return True if the operand is a signaling NaN; otherwise return False.
Threads block on 'wait()' and are simultaneously awoken once they have all made that call.
This does not affect any standard library search path that the linker may search by default.
If the level is one of the predefined levels (CRITICAL, ERROR, WARNING, INFO, DEBUG) then you get the corresponding string.
Usually a child process will use the resource created by its parent.
Find all header lines matching a given header name.
Add a header to be used by the HTTP interface only e.g.
Setup scripts will almost never instantiate Distribution directly, unless the 'setup()' function is totally inadequate to their needs.
Formats val according to the currency settings in the current locale.
The result is never affected by either the sign or the coefficient of either operand.
Supports any type, as header values can be any type.
S.remove(value) -- remove first occurrence of value.
If initialized with the empty string, all events are passed.
Passing zero as a value for each of these arguments selects the full range of results.
For mocks replacing a class, their return value (the 'instance') will have the same spec as the class.
It has not been reviewed for security issues, however, and we strongly recommend that you use a "real" web server for production use.
Codec details when looking up the codec registry
'i386' An empty string is returned if the value cannot be determined.
To get a full path (which begins with top) to a file or directory in dirpath, do os.path.join(dirpath, name).
These end conditions are important to ensure that things go as expected when either mark is zero.
This is necessary to compare files with unknown or inconsistent encoding.
True if the file descriptor will be closed by close().
Directories are added recursively by default.
By default, tabs in 'text' are expanded with string.expandtabs(), and all other whitespace characters (including newline) are converted to space.
Args: cmd: A RETR, LIST, or NLST command.
Compute the overlapping coefficient (OVL) between two normal distributions.
Remove an address from a larger block.
The text first has its whitespace collapsed.
Implements something akin to RFC-2396 5.2 step 6 to parse relative paths.
The code is executed by calling self.runcode() (which also handles run-time exceptions, except for SystemExit).
Returns tuple "(head, tail)" where "tail" is everything after the final slash.
Return true if the object is a traceback.
charset names the character set to use in the RFC 2046 header.
Convenience function to create Timer object and call repeat method.
If 'verbose' is true, print a one-line summary of each mkdir to stdout.
Threads that call wait() once the flag is true will not block at all.
The return value is a list of strings, each ending in a newline.
This is a float expressed in seconds since an epoch, but the epoch, precision, accuracy and drift are unspecified and may differ per event loop.
The gateway to the Distutils: do everything your setup script needs to do, in a highly flexible and user-driven way.
A command is parsed out of each line by collecting the prefix composed of characters in the identchars member.
It does not take any initialization parameters, but always uses 'sys.stdin', 'os.environ', and friends.
Called by 'getopt()' before it can do anything worthwhile.
This method is intended to be called by parsers that discover defects.
ISO week days range from 1 (Monday) to 7 (Sunday).
Set parsing to stop on the first non-option.
The optional argument timespec specifies the number of additional terms of the time to include.
distutils.errors Provides exceptions used by the Distutils modules.
Decode a message header value without converting charset.
Interaction function, emulates a very dumb telnet client.
Return the spec for the specified module.
Any errors are ignored (apart from being reported to stdout if 'verbose' is true).
In case this fails, the given parameters are used as defaults.
Return the macOS system version as a tuple The return value is safe to use to compare two version numbers.
If there is an entry in the cache already, it is not altered.
Arguments: args: A string, or a sequence of program arguments.
Check whether specified line seems to be executable.
Version numbering for anarchists and software realists.
Otherwise, it will be a ValueError to encode such floats.
'defaults' is an n-tuple of the default values of the last n parameters.
Windows), os.path provides the same operations in a manner specific to that platform, and is an alias to another module (e.g.
Set to false value to disable default value expansion.
Return a metadata dict for the source pointed to by the path (str).
To unpickle the record at the receiving end into a LogRecord, use the makeLogRecord function.
If no argument is given, current pensize is returned.
If the node provided does not have docstrings a TypeError will be raised.
It also provides some help for examining source code and class layout.
Takes an optional alternative filename for the pattern grammar.
Bind bye() method to mouseclick on TurtleScreen.
Return a sorted sequence of method names found within testCaseClass
It is perfectly valid to duplicate library names; the linker will be instructed to link against libraries as many times as they are mentioned.
If any of the handlers passed as arguments are subclasses of the default handlers, the default handlers will not be used.
Return a list of weak references to the values.
Check if the string color is a legal Tkinter color string.
Switch back to a clear-text control connection.
Convert a string to a null-terminated bytes object.
Return True if the watcher is installed and ready to handle process exit notifications.
Return a list of records for the stack above the caller's frame.
Note that only TypeVarTuples defined in global scope can be pickled.
If no module name is specified, all top level finders are produced.
The returned list of items describes the Content-Type headers' charset parameter for this message and all the subparts in its payload.
Based on RFC 854: TELNET Protocol Specification, by J.
Return True if the module specified by fullname is a package.
Get the doc string or comments for an object.
Test whether argument path is an executable file.
obj is the object on which the defect should be registered if it is not raised.
This class must have a constructor that can take zero arguments.
First we check the 'cmdclass' dictionary; if the command is mentioned there, we fetch the class object from the dictionary and return it.
In short: words are delimited by spaces, as long as those spaces are not escaped by a backslash, or inside a quoted string.
If a is negative then b must be integral.
Allow instance and class checks for special stdlib modules.
The default false value indicates that blank values are to be ignored and treated as if they were not included.
The former defines a macro; if the value is None, the macro is defined without an explicit value.
Does nothing if self.usage is empty or not defined.
Acts as a placeholder which defines the Handler interface.
This option is not supported on Windows and some UNIX's.
the tangent of the shear angle, by which lines parallel to the heading of the turtle are sheared.
Truncates usercode tb at the first unittest frame.
Before formatting the dictionary, a couple of preparatory steps are carried out.
Set the values of any "undefined" options from corresponding option values in some other command object.
FileIO subclasses RawIOBase to provide an interface to OS files.
The following chunk types are recognized.
The character is reserved, but in typical usage the quote function is being called on a path where the existing slash characters are to be preserved.
Union is the maximum of value in either of the input counters.
It excludes terminated threads and threads that have not yet been started.
The decoder can modify this setting as appropriate.
Return the name of the VC runtime dll
A final name cannot be re-assigned or overridden in a subclass.
If stream is not specified, sys.stderr is used.
Mark a protocol class as a runtime protocol.
LogRecord instances are created every time something is logged.
This way a caller can catch the errors and initiate post-mortem debugging.
The returned mock will only be callable if instances of the mock are callable.
This parser supports correct RFC 5322 generation by tagging white space as folding white space only when folding is allowed in the non-obsolete rule sets.
Any exception raised in the callback is delayed until the handshake, read, or write operation has been performed.
Generator yielding matches for a sequence of patterns and nodes.
:return: A bytes object representing the gzip header.
For ConvertingXXX's, this mixin class provides common functions
This may be overridden, but should not normally need to be; see the precmd() and postcmd() methods for useful execution hooks.
Return True if the operand is a normal number; otherwise return False.
keyfile and certfile are also optional - they can contain a PEM formatted private key and certificate chain file for the SSL connection.
There are some times however, where you may wish to have ipaddress sort these for you anyway.
Note, this function utilizes the ndiff function to generate the side by side difference markup.
If hash is true, the field will be included in the object's hash().
check if this entry applies to the specified agent
For example, a filter initialized with "A.B" will allow events logged by loggers "A.B", "A.B.C", "A.B.C.D", "A.B.D" etc.
compact If true, several items will be combined in one line.
The result (or exception) of source will be copied to destination.
This version just zaps the buffer to empty.
Module difflib -- helpers for computing deltas between objects.
3) A double quotation mark preceded by a backslash is interpreted as a literal double quotation mark.
It should return an ASCII string that will be base64 encoded and sent to the server.
One difference is that you can also pass a Request instance instead of URL.
Acquire a lock, blocking or non-blocking.
Not thread-safe without a lock around calls.
Set the second sequence to be compared.
Abstract Base Classes (ABCs) for numbers, according to PEP 3141.
In case none is found, a ValueError is raised.
Clear the cache for all loggers in loggerDict Called when level changes are made
CookiePolicy is responsible for checking them to see whether they should be accepted from and returned to the server.
Escape parenthesis and backslash for use within a comment.
Return a sorted list of Statistic instances.
True if the SocketIO is open for reading.
Print a report to stdout, listing the found modules with their paths, as well as modules that are missing, or seem to be missing.
This exception is raised when the timeout expires while waiting for a child process.
Arguments: Four input formats are allowed: - pencolor() Return the current pencolor as color specification string, possibly in hex-number format (see example).
Write a log message to the log file.
Indent a piece of text and append it, according to the current indentation level
Starting Python in isolated mode (-I) disables automatic readline configuration.
'data' are tuples of message part envelope and data.
If 'src' is not a directory, raise DistutilsFileError.
Encode a single header line with quoted-printable (like) encoding.
Remove and return an item from the queue.
The only supported seed types are None, int, float, str, bytes, and bytearray.
fnmatchcase(FILENAME, PATTERN) always takes case in account.
This is a method of the Screen-class and not available for TurtleScreen instances.
Depending on your system, instantiating a PurePath will return either a PurePosixPath or a PureWindowsPath object.
Sum the caller statistics to get total number of calls received.
Aliases may be nested and can contain anything that can be legally typed at the pdb prompt.
The remaining arguments may be ints.
Each opcode in the pickle is generated, from the current pickle position, stopping after a STOP opcode is delivered.
Read up to len(b) bytes into bytearray b and return the number of bytes read.
On Unix, it supports IP (Internet Protocol) and Unix domain sockets.
Find the target member of a symlink or hardlink member in the archive.
Join a base URL and a possibly relative URL to form an absolute interpretation of the latter.
A value of -1 means to use the optimization level of the current interpreter, as given by -O command line options.
height: as integer the height in pixels, as float a fraction of the screen.
Choose the right processing method depending on the type and call it.
For classes, the search order is globals first then locals.
Read all lines available on the input stream and return them as a list.
Construct a datetime from a given date and a given time.
Write the bytes to the path (if possible).
depth The maximum depth to print out nested structures.
IOW, adjacent triples never describe adjacent equal blocks.
Define self.rfile and self.wfile for datagram sockets.
Return the data associated with 'pathname'.
Initialize the instance with the from and to addresses and subject line of the email.
With a command name as argument, print help about that command.
Read everything up to the next ';'.
Set the watcher for child processes.
env: Defines the environment variables for the new process.
various conditions to check an enumeration for
If the relative weights or cumulative weights are not specified, the selections are made with equal probability.
If that happens to be set to None, then ValueError is raised.
Update the cache if it doesn't contain an entry for this file already.
This class allows communication via SSL.
Return output (stdout or stderr) of executing cmd in a shell.
Decorator to verify the named module is frozen.
Python implementation of the io module.
Applies an 'or' operation between self and other's digits.
Number of available undo actions is determined by the size of the undobuffer.
Base file loader class which implements the loader protocol methods that require file system usage.
The exact equivalent of the value in decimal is 0.1000000000000000055511151231257827021181583404541015625.
Mathematically, this works only if the two distributions are independent or if they are jointly normally distributed.
Raise SendfileNotAvailableError if the system does not support sendfile syscall and fallback is False.
Such protocol can be used with isinstance() and issubclass().
If no map is provided, an empty dict is used.
The instance is initially not connected; the open() method must be used to establish a connection.
Any whitespace that can be uniformly removed from the second line onwards is removed.
Command-line interface (looks at sys.argv to decide what to do).
error(message: string) Prints a usage message incorporating the message to stderr and exits.
Returns two sets of Future: (done, pending).
The optional second argument is the port number, which defaults to the standard telnet port (23).
Only call this method when the calling thread owns the lock.
New ChainMap with a new map followed by all previous maps.
Return the result of the function call.
Return false if both exist and 'target' is the same age or younger than 'source'.
SequenceMatcher tries to compute a "human-friendly diff" between two sequences.
Returns an IP address as a formatted string.
The bottom type, a type that has no members.
Set self.eof when connection is closed.
This version just flushes and chains to the parent class' close().
Set parsing to not stop on the first non-option, allowing interspersing switches with command arguments.
This class represents both Netscape and RFC 2965 cookies.
- To find the name of the file containing the object.
If it is missing or None, the mean is automatically calculated.
Gets the packing format for a single value stored in the list.
Here the patching applies to the indented block after the with statement.
msg: Optional message to use on failure instead of a list of differences.
If picname is None, return the filename of the current backgroundimage.
By default, stdout and stderr are not captured, and those attributes will be None.
Returns: The integer address packed as 4 bytes in network (big-endian) order.
Get a quote-delimited fragment from self's field.
In the initial state and after reset(), getstate() must return (b"", 0).
Works like rename, except creation of any intermediate directories needed to make the new pathname good is attempted first.
Run custom user specific code, if available.
Safely unwrap objects and determine if they are functions.
An OSError is raised if the IO object does not use a file descriptor.
Undefine a preprocessor macro for all compilations driven by this compiler object.
Otherwise, the operands are compared as though by the compare operation.
Ensure that 'option' is a list of strings.
Test whether a path is a regular file
This implementation avoids disrupting other code spawning processes by polling explicitly each process in the SIGCHLD handler instead of calling os.waitpid(-1).
Return an iterator over all non-overlapping matches in the string.
Execute a module's code without importing it.
If loader is not None, the portion will be ignored.
Takes a certificate in ASCII PEM format and returns the DER-encoded version of it as a byte sequence
If you use this argument you may not also use the Popen constructor's "stdin" argument, as it too will be used internally.
Raised when trying to do a kind of operation (e.g.
This method must be run for all leaves until the linear subpatterns are merged into a single
Return a string with information about the breakpoint.
A start boundary was found, but not the corresponding close boundary.
With a function name, set a break at the first executable line of that function.
Header contained bytes that could not be decoded
When the specified number of threads have started waiting, they are all simultaneously awoken.
Create a new ordered dictionary with keys from iterable and values set to value.
To maintain compatibility with other platforms, not only the LANG variable is tested, but a list of variables given as envvars parameter.
The first argument specifies how many times to call timeit(), defaulting to 5; the second argument specifies the timer argument, defaulting to one million.
If charset is None, the charset parameter will be removed from the Content-Type field.
Return a synchronization wrapper for a RawArray
If no matching header was found, a KeyError is raised.
distutils.spawn Provides the 'spawn()' function, a front-end to various platform- specific functions for launching another program in a sub-process.
Like FeedParser, but feed accepts bytes.
The required argument level means: 0: no debugging output (default) 1: print commands and responses but not body text etc.
Returns a copy with the sign switched.
Return list of triples describing matching subsequences.
charset -- charset of the HTML document
Otherwise, src is copied to the destination and then removed.
Return the keyed message; raise KeyError if it doesn't exist.
For version 1 (provided for reproducing random sequences from older versions of Python), the algorithm for str and bytes generates a narrower range of seeds.
Return a list of ciphers shared by the client during the handshake or None if this is not a valid server connection.
Return true if the lock has been acquired, false if the timeout has elapsed.
On Linux, copystat() also copies the "extended attributes" where possible.
Optional argument: mode -- one of the strings 'standard', 'logo' or 'world' Mode 'standard' is compatible with turtle.py.
Dummy class to hold the distribution meta-data: name, version, author, and so forth.
Low-level log implementation, proxied to allow nested logger adapters.
If 'prefix' is supplied, then only filenames starting with 'prefix' (itself a pattern) and ending with 'pattern', with anything in between them, will match.
Classes to generate plain text from a message object tree.
Note: If something() is cancelled by other means this will still cancel shield().
If 'buffer' is provided, read into this buffer and return the number of bytes read.
Initializes the instance - basically setting the formatter to None and the filter list to empty.
It may look different on different platforms and this is intended.
This is NOT intended to be a passed parameter.
state must have been returned by getstate().
On success, the function returns nothing.
The mtime argument is an optional numeric timestamp to be written to the last modification time field in the stream when compressing.
Every sequence of mouse-move-events on a turtle is preceded by a mouse-click event on that turtle.
Where there is no registered implementation for a specific type, its method resolution order is used to find a more generic implementation.
The line is a string with leading and trailing whitespace stripped; if the source is not available it is None.
Args: user - mailbox user; password - mailbox password.
Requests that the underlying shared memory block be destroyed.
Determine the files to delete when rolling over.
'compress' must be "gzip" (the default), "bzip2", "xz", or None.
Exactly how an "area" is defined is up to the application developer.
Create and return image item on canvas.
If the start directory is not the top level directory then the top level directory must be specified separately.
Return a tuple of free variables in the function.
For unions, basic simplifications used by Union constructor are performed.
Just like self.assertTrue(a is not b), but with a nicer default message.
Whitespace chunks will be removed from the beginning and end of lines, but apart from that whitespace is preserved.
It is an error to return a zero-sized buffer.
Read and decode the next chunk of data from the BufferedReader.
Optional argument charset (defaults to utf-8) specifies the charset to use to encode the string to binary before CTE encoding it.
HTTPError is an exception class that is also a valid HTTP response instance.
Pearson's correlation coefficient Return the Pearson's correlation coefficient for two inputs.
The return value may be the original node in which case no replacement takes place.
Optional keyword arg "parser" specifies a DocTestParser (or subclass) that should be used to extract tests from the files.
Interface for stream protocol with manual buffer control.
Copy all data between two file objects.
Retrieve message header of message number 'which' and first 'howmuch' lines of message body.
Return True if there is an effective breakpoint for this line.
Return True if the operand is canonical; otherwise return False.
Try to find a spec for the specified module.
Decide whether a particular byte ordinal needs to be quoted.
Optional charset serves two purposes: it has the same meaning as the charset argument to the .append() method.
Applies an 'and' operation between self and other's digits.
This is useful for alternate formatting of stack traces.
Instances of the Logger class represent a single logging channel.
Optional headersonly is a flag specifying whether to stop parsing after reading the headers or not.
encoding gives the name of the encoding that the stream will be decoded or encoded with.
Stop the server and this thread nicely
The calling module is assumed to be the module of the stack frame at the given depth in the call stack.
Close the temporary file, possibly deleting it.
The option values can contain format strings which refer to other values in the same section, or values in the special default section.
See the Library Reference Manual for details.
Encode string using the CTE encoding that produces the shorter result.
This class is typically used by framework authors that want to implement asynchronous IO for SSL through memory buffers.
Sets the URL referring to a robots.txt file.
Raises ValueError if called without calling "prepare" previously.
The concatenation of the drive and root, or ''.
To implement a service, you must derive a class from BaseRequestHandler and redefine its handle() method.
This implementation registers a SIGCHLD signal handler on instantiation (which may conflict with other code that install own handler for this signal).
Like digest(), but returns a string of hexadecimal digits instead.
One line giving the response code 2.
For Debian and derivatives, this sys.path is augmented with directories for packages distributed within the distribution.
If the message is a container (i.e.
Returned value is a named tuple with attributes 'total', 'used' and 'free', which are the amount of total, used and free space, in bytes.
delimiter, quotechar) Returns a Dialect object.
If the value is None, the default is Message.
Return the most common data point from discrete or nominal data.
Helper to format the platform string in a filename compatible format e.g.
Otherwise ('block' is false), return an item if one is immediately available, else raise the Empty exception ('timeout' is ignored in that case).
If the future is done and has an exception set, this exception is raised.
Called once before any tests are executed.
For non-callable mocks the callable variant will be used (rather than any custom subclass).
Format a section with a given heading.
Some of the conversion steps may require that their input is a disk file, others may be able to read standard input; similar for their output.
Start the enhanced pydoc web server and open a web browser.
Interface to the system's file command.
Ordinarily you don't need to worry about this.
The header block is terminated either by the end of the input or by a blank line.
Scan the string s for a JSON string.
Examples are properties (defined in Python) and getsets and members (defined in C).
Returns public methods and other interesting attributes.
Return a new dynamically created dataclass.
Otherwise, the result is the same as using the plus operation on the operand.
Return the message's main content type.
Returns a string identifying the compiler used for compiling Python.
Open the URL url, which can be either a string or a Request object.
The descriptions come from the command class attribute 'description'.
Used to setup TypeVars and ParamSpec's bound, covariant and contravariant attributes.
If any line is not followed by a space character, then raise ValueError.
Raises: TypeError: If passed a list of mixed version objects.
Decodes the object input and returns a tuple (output object, length consumed).
Raised when HTTP error occurs, but also acts like non-error return
Args: prompt: Written on stream to ask for the input.
Indicate that the last header line has been sent to the server.
This method returns True just before the run() method starts until just after the run() method terminates.
Write txt at pos in canvas with specified font and color.
It returns the zipimporter instance itself if the module was found, or None if it wasn't.
This is only meaningful for optional command-line arguments.
This isn't actually used for anything, though.
Return the canonical path of the specified filename, eliminating any symbolic links encountered in the path.
Record of phased-in incompatible language changes.
Mode 'logo' is compatible with most Logo-Turtle-Graphics.
Write a string to the socket, doubling any IAC characters.
If the response code is 200, posting is allowed; if it 201, posting is not allowed.
This takes a binary file for reading a pickle data stream.
Return true if the object is an abstract base class (ABC).
The Message object is then serialized using email.generator.BytesGenerator and sendmail is called to transmit the message.
The turtle's orientation does not change.
Add a constant or another NormalDist instance.
This is necessary to easily find the transition times in local time
Stop the timer if it hasn't finished yet.
Read chunk of data from the stream until newline (b' ') is found.
Each instance holds the total number of tests run, and collections of failures and errors that occurred among those test runs.
Encodes input and returns the resulting object.
Generic base class for TextIO and BinaryIO.
Read all the files and check the CRC.
Return the number of threads required to trip the barrier.
Return a tuple of realname and email address, unless the parse fails, in which case return a 2-tuple of ('', '').
Internal: get a response plus following text from the server.
Various types of useful iterators and generators.
Return a tuple with fixed versions of all arguments.
Return a list of weak references to the keys.
A selector is a "notify-when-ready" multiplexer.
Reduces a compiled pattern tree to an intermediate representation suitable for feeding the automaton.
In most cases it is preferred you consider using the importlib module's functionality over this module.
If neither charset nor language is given, then s is returned as-is.
compile Compile a pattern into a Pattern object.
n(ext) Continue execution until the next line in the current function is reached or it returns.
Request -- An object that encapsulates the state of a request.
Convert to formal string, for repr().
No operation should be done on it afterwards.
Move turtle to the origin - coordinates (0,0).
If mode 'world' is already active, all drawings are redrawn according to the new coordinates.
Open a persistent dictionary for reading and writing.
If this option is used with a tuple, the tuple must be a singleton (i.e.
Basic infrastructure for asynchronous socket service clients and servers.
Get the size of the terminal window.
If the server supports TLS, this will encrypt the rest of the SMTP session.
Return a new (drive, root, parts) tuple.
Set the formatter for this handler.
It serves as a useful guide when making changes.
Decide what to do with an "Expect: 100-continue" header.
Optional keyword arg "report" prints a summary at the end when true, else prints nothing at the end.
Turtle shapes can be stretched and tilted, which makes turtles very versatile geometrical objects.
This method should be called from format() by a formatter which wants to make use of a formatted time.
This is available on most if not all Unix platforms.
For the C events, no action is taken.
Please see the copystat function for more information.
To reduce docstrings from TurtleScreen class for functions
paths is a list of directories to search for an archive.
join() raises a RuntimeError if an attempt is made to join the current thread as that would cause a deadlock.
Abstract base class for formatting option help.
Parse the input lines from a robots.txt file.
A file object providing transparent LZMA (de)compression.
Concrete implementation of SourceLoader using the file system.
Submit a coroutine object to a given event loop.
A handler class which writes logging records, appropriately formatted, to a stream.
With no argument, disassemble the last traceback.
Return the timezone offset as timedelta, positive east of UTC (negative west of UTC).
size, if given, is passed as size argument to the read() method.
The following methods are used by IPv4 objects in both single IP addresses and networks.
filename Specifies that a FileHandler be created, using the specified filename, rather than a StreamHandler.
An audio file consists of a header followed by the data.
Also provides 'unreadline()' for implementing line-at-a-time lookahead.
Return the list of directories actually created.
A mutable set is a finite, iterable container.
Finally the direction of the turtle is changed by the amount of extent.
:param string: A unicode string for the header.
Return the message for this LogRecord after merging any user-supplied arguments with the message.
Else, internal buffer will be cleared.
The default is 78, as recommended (but not required) by RFC 2822.
Open the file in text mode, read it, and close the file.
assert the mock has been called with the specified calls.
This function is also called the percent point function or quantile function.
Seek to specified position into the chunk.
Check if test is below base in a URI tree Both args must be URIs in reduced form.
None is returned if no spec could be found.
The frames are always ordered from oldest to newest.
Helper function to parse IPv6 string address with scope id.
Any positive integer will do for a, but the closer a is to the square root of n the faster convergence will be.
The command or option is not supported by the SMTP server.
Disassemble a traceback (default: last traceback).
Arguments: 'prefix', 'suffix', 'dir' -- as for mkstemp.
Returns the position of the node in its parent's children before it was removed.
Return a Message representation or raise a KeyError.
Return an exception handler, or None if the default one is in use.
If the logger has no handlers, call basicConfig() to add a console handler with a pre-defined format.
It also adds a transport property which references the Transport directly.
Read up to n bytes with at most one read() system call.
In all cases, Inexact, Rounded, and Subnormal will also be raised.
This instance method is extracted for supporting the test code.
the file name that shows up in error messages.
If path is omitted the current directory is assumed.
Make sure that the requestHandler accepts the paths in question.
It's VRMF and builddate reflect the current ABI levels of the runtime environment.
Utilities to compile possibly incomplete Python source code.
This method will return normally if the mail is accepted for at least one recipient.
For all other existing members, None is returned.
Bind fun to mouse-move event on this turtle on canvas.
Run command with arguments and return its output.
call: A function is about to be called or another code block is entered.
The collections contain tuples of (testcase, exceptioninfo), where exceptioninfo is the formatted traceback of the error that occurred.
Add the given payload to the current payload.
Raise EOFError if connection closed and no data available.
Parse the command-line options for a single command.
If True, the message headers will be serialized using utf8 and will not contain encoded words (see RFC 6532 for more on this serialization format).
Format help with indented section bodies.
This method should either return True (possibly after sending a 100 Continue response) or send an error response and return False.
The default maxlinelen is 78 as recommended by RFC 2822.
osname should be one of the standard Python OS names (i.e.
With no bpnumber argument, commands refers to the last breakpoint set.
The linear automaton traverses the linear paths from the leaves to the root of the AST and returns a set of nodes for further matching.
You can later append to the header with .append() method calls.
Get the mapping of free variables to their current values.
Create a new hashing object and return it.
as argument, list 11 lines around the current line.
The value passed in by the email package may contain surrogateescaped binary data.
We don't want an all or nothing approach, so we allow for small variations in this number.
The constructor adds a newline if needed.
Test whether two open file objects reference the same file
Tool for measuring execution time of small code snippets.
The context manager always creates a new event loop, allows to run async functions inside it, and properly finalizes the loop at the context manager exit.
Queries the server if not already done, else returns the cached value.
getset descriptors are specialized descriptors defined in extension modules.
A mode of 'r' is equivalent to one of 'rb', and similarly for 'w' and 'wb', 'a' and 'ab', and 'x' and 'xb'.
Helper function for key functions when sorting unorderable objects.
Compute the annotations dict for an object.
The contents is 'data', which may be either a 'str' or a 'bytes' instance; if it is a 'str', it is encoded as UTF-8 first.
When set to -1, the buffer size can be arbitrary.
They are provided for compatibility with the Queue class.
Open a tar archive for reading, writing or appending.
The particular order that is returned may depend on the specific order in which the items were inserted in the graph.
(c) Copyright 2000 Guido van Rossum.
Each call to the function should return one line of input as bytes.
Only the name of this class is considered a public API.
Remove interface scope from IPv6 address.
Like stat(), except if the path points to a symlink, the symlink's status information is returned, rather than its target's.
If this is not correct, unpickling will fail in some circumstances.
Include the appropriate MSVC runtime library if Python was built with MSVC 7.0 or later.
Return a dictionary with all functions and classes in module.
If None, the initial header value is not set.
If only the high-water limit is given, the low-water limit defaults to an implementation-specific value less than or equal to the high-water limit.
The 'cmdclass' argument, if supplied, is a dictionary mapping command names to command classes.
Since according to RFC 2045, messages always have a default type this will always return a value.
The typing module: Support for gradual typing as defined by PEP 484 and subsequent PEPs.
Case is not important in the header name.
Generates 'EXPUNGE' response for each deleted message.
Handles all HTTP GET requests and interprets them as requests for documentation.
Scan one logical line of Python and look up values of variables used.
Any needed intermediary directories are to be created.
The pattern is deliberately not stored as a loader attribute so that packages can continue discovery themselves.
Return the new full name of the file.
Add component to a shape of type compound.
Components that mean special things to the local file system (e.g.
Return the turtle's y coordinate --- No arguments.
Return data for response 'code' if received, or None.
Called if no explicit visitor function exists for a node.
Default retrlines callback to print a line.
None or no argument seeds from current time or from an operating system specific randomness source if available.
If the content is given, the type must not be None.
The optional file argument directs where the traceback is sent; it defaults to sys.stderr.
Long options similar to those supported by GNU software may be used as well via an optional third argument.
Set canvas' backgroundcolor if color is not None, else return backgroundcolor.
Iterate over the instructions in a bytecode string.
Return the list of stack frames for this task's coroutine.
Because we remember objects by their id, we have to assure that possibly temporary objects are kept alive by referencing them.
These aspects of the context need only be checked when the values are required to be used.
Detect the language of a given file, or list of files.
Folding of a custom header object is done by calling its fold method with the current policy.
If the command defined 'self.force', and it is true, then the command is unconditionally run -- does no timestamp checks.
Read up to size uncompressed bytes from the file.
This is used mainly to distinguish platform-specific build directories and platform-specific built distributions.
The delay can be an int or float, expressed in seconds.
Set a profile function for all threads started from the threading module.
Returns: A boolean, True if the address is reserved per RFC 3513 2.5.6.
Multiply both mu and sigma by a constant.
On a Windows system, instantiating a PurePath should return this object.
return an image object containing the imagedata from a gif-file named filename.
StreamReaderWriter instances allow wrapping streams which work in both read and write modes.
Clear all cookies and reload cookies from a saved file.
Invoke 2to3 on a list of Python files.
retrieve(url) returns (filename, headers) for a local object or (tempfilename, headers) for a remote object.
Possible results are "Intel" or "AMD64".
Return true if the object is an asynchronous generator.
Assumes command is legal in current state.
Cookies are NOT loaded from the named file until either the .load() or .revert() method is called.
return the size of the next object.
4) Backslashes are interpreted literally, unless they immediately precede a double quotation mark.
If internal buffer is empty, read another block from the stream.
Low-level logging routine which creates a LogRecord and then calls all the handlers of this logger to handle the record.
If funcname is defined, a breakpoint hit will be counted when the first line of that function is executed.
Optional failobj is the object to return if there is no Content-Type header, or the Content-Type header has no such parameter.
convert each quasi-member into an instance of the new enum class
However, they can include a directory component, which means the linker will look in that specific directory rather than searching all the normal locations.
When a string of hex digits is given, curly braces, hyphens, and a URN prefix are all optional.
The user of the file doesn't have to worry about the compression, but random access is not allowed.
base64 encoded sequence had invalid length (1 mod 4)
Determine if the specified record is to be logged.
Construct a UTC datetime from time.time().
trying to compile C files on a platform not supported by a CCompiler subclass.
By combining together these and similar commands, intricate shapes and pictures can easily be drawn.
Please note that comments in the original configuration file are not preserved when writing the configuration back.
"24") - a string representing the prefix netmask (e.g.
Return true if the object is a user-defined generator function.
close() may be called more than once without error.
Only makes one system call, so not all of the data may be written.
Port number 0 can be used to get an arbitrary unused port.
Patch can be used as a context manager, with the with statement.
See ndiff() documentation for argument default values and descriptions.
The outfp object must accept bytes in its write method.
Mixin class for commands that run 2to3.
Differ uses SequenceMatcher both to compare sequences of lines, and to compare sequences of characters within similar (near-matching) lines.
This makes it possible to write a filter that rewrites its input file in place.
Reads potential header lines into a list from a file pointer.
Not all RFC 5322 nodes are produced, and there is one non-RFC 5322 node that may be produced: 'ptext'.
It can thus be a file object opened for binary writing, an io.BytesIO instance, or any other custom object that meets this interface.
The latter points to a list of such instances since there may be more than one breakpoint per line.
Subtract two dates, or a date and a timedelta.
Return True if break should happen here.
Returns true if name is imported from package at the top level of the tree which node belongs to.
assert that the mock was called exactly once and that that call was with the specified arguments.
Append a string to the MIME header.
If optional arg 'onerror' is specified, it should be a function; it will be called with one argument, an OSError instance.
If cls is not an instance of ABCMeta, does nothing.
Imported as a module, this provides infrastructure to write your own refactoring tool.
Setting the various member variables also changes the behavior of the underlying server mechanism.
Return the (int) modification time for the path (str).
If no onerror function is supplied, ImportErrors are caught and ignored, while all other exceptions are propagated, terminating the search.
--size limit -s limit Restrict the total size of the incoming message to "limit" number of bytes via the RFC 1870 SIZE extension.
Reader, Writer must be factory functions or classes providing the StreamReader, StreamWriter interface resp.
Otherwise, block until another coroutine calls set() to set the flag to true, then return True.
- options: A dictionary mapping from option flags to True or False, which is used to override default options for this example.
The main statement, the setup statement and the timer function to be used are passed to the constructor.
Create a MIME-compliant header that can contain many character sets.
An empty last part will result in a path that ends with a separator.
Usually an IFF-type file consists of one or more chunks.
Copy data and mode bits ("cp src dst").
Returns numeric and monetary locale-specific parameters.
Raise ValueError if name is DEFAULT.
Return a suite of all test cases found using the given sequence of string specifiers.
The optional name argument can be used to set a Unicode name for the function.
:param mtime: The mtime (must support conversion to a 32-bit integer).
There is an entry for line that contains only a string or a part of a triple-quoted string.
An arbitrary object can be attached to the file object, which can be used for example to store context information, a callback, etc.
buffering has the same meaning as for the builtin open() API.
Mainly there for the benefit of callback options.
Connect to a host on a given (SSL) port.
The TextIO and BinaryIO subclasses below capture the distinctions between text vs.
Optional header is the header to search instead of Content-Type.
Return tuple of base classes (including cls) in method resolution order.
So the min() of the result is probably the only number you should be interested in.
Base class for all exceptions raised by this module.
Generic (shallow and deep) copying operations.
Argument 'level' means: 0: no debugging output (default) 1: print commands and responses but not body text etc.
allowZip64: if True ZipFile will create files with ZIP64 extensions when needed, otherwise it will raise an exception when this would be necessary.
Return the longhand version of the IP address as a string.
Do our best to find the parameters in an invalid MIME header
Write the given bytes buffer to the IO stream.
Returns the absolute value of self.
If the socket is non-blocking and no bytes could be written None is returned.
It can return a changed TarInfo or None to skip the member.
Returns: A boolean, True if the address is within the reserved IPv4 Network range.
Return an iterator for one week of weekday numbers starting with the configured first one.
Semaphores manage a counter representing the number of release() calls minus the number of acquire() calls, plus an initial value.
Return the value for key if key is in the dictionary, else default.
If you override this in a subclass, it should not return -- it should either exit or raise an exception.
Find tags and other markup and call handler functions.
Recursively remove an entire directory tree.
Return UTC time tuple compatible with time.gmtime().
The delta generated also consists of newline- terminated strings, ready to be printed as-is via the writelines() method of a file-like object.
We use this external "parallel stack" to avoid contaminating the program that we are profiling.
piping it through compress or uuencode).
Abstract base class for Node and Leaf.
Does not add the surrounding double quotes.
Given a path with elements separated by posixpath.sep, generate all elements of that path.
Initializes the handler with a specific host address and port.
If 'timeout' is specified, use it in the connection attempt.
If some other encoding is used, or the header is missing, or if the payload has bogus data (i.e.
This can be useful for interactive console (e.g.
Return the angle of the line from the turtle's position to (x, y).
Return (active breakpoint, delete temporary flag) or (None, None) as breakpoint to act upon.
Copy data from src to dst in the most efficient way possible.
If after the decrement the recursion level is still nonzero, the lock remains locked and owned by the calling thread.
If 'dst' does not exist, it is created with 'mkpath()'.
Return a list of all the message's header field names.
Sometimes we compare one host name with another.
Asynchronous context manager for cancelling overdue coroutines.
Validate a host so it doesn't contain control characters.
errors may be given to define the error handling.
Also, implementations may raise UnsupportedOperation when operations they do not support are called.
Limit is compared against part of the line without newline.
Returns two connection object connected by a pipe
Context manager for temporarily redirecting stderr to another file.
If value is a three tuple (charset, language, value), it will be encoded according to RFC2231 rules.
Returns a Thread object on which you can call start() to start the server, and which you can join() when appropriate.
import curses from curses import textpad curses.initscr() ...
dummy method - to be overwritten by child class
Clear the cache and cache statistics
Return true if the object is a code object.
If 'dst' is a directory, then 'src' is copied there with the same name; otherwise, it must be a filename.
This lets you jump back and execute code again, or jump forward to skip code that you don't want to run.
Creates a customized copy of the Parameter.
Open the file pointed by this path and return a file object, as the built-in open() function does.
Returns the natural (base e) logarithm of self.
The record is then written to the stream with a trailing newline.
No special efforts are made to achieve exact results.
Class for keeping track of an item in inventory.
Like min(self, other) except if one is not a number, returns NaN (and signals if one is sNaN).
Return True if this archive member is a directory.
tzinfo may be None, or an instance of a tzinfo subclass.
This method is a coroutine which will try to establish the connection in the background.
If two callbacks are scheduled for exactly the same time, it is undefined which will be called first.
If the string does not need to be double-quoted, then just return the string.
If no free slot is immediately available, raise QueueFull.
If the variable is defined and the value is a positive integer, it is used.
The return value is a list of strings, each ending in a newline and some containing internal newlines.
Interface to the compiler's internal symbol tables
correlation Pearson's correlation coefficient for two variables.
Coroutine functions are defined with "async def" syntax.
Returns True if the two operands have the same exponent.
Encodes the input strings from the iterator using an IncrementalEncoder.
abstractmethod() may be used to declare abstract methods for properties and descriptors.
Returns True for broken symbolic links
The first form is intended for backward compatibility only.
Set the class to be used when instantiating a logger.
If both files exist, the one in the home directory is read first and aliases defined there can be overridden by the local file.
However it is possible to import it into an IDE and use the function check() described below.
Errors that occurred while trying to import something to document it.
If a call without an argument would block, return false immediately; otherwise, do the same thing as when called without arguments, and return true.
Handler for XML-RPC data and documentation requests passed through CGI
Return the reverse DNS pointer name for the IPv6 address.
Get a parenthesis-delimited fragment from self's field.
Information about Python class or function.
'owner' and 'group' are used when creating a tar archive.
Abstract policy for accessing the event loop.
If n is None, then list all element counts.
Return a random text string, in hexadecimal.
A socket-like wrapper for exposing real transport sockets.
Remove original unmodified values for testing
Otherwise, if another thread owns the lock, block until the lock is unlocked.
Returns exactly size bytes of data unless the underlying raw IO stream reaches EOF or if the call would block in non-blocking mode.
Actually, the parser is even more generous when accepting input than RFC 5322 mandates, following the spirit of Postel's Law, which RFC 5322 encourages.
Print a table of contents to sys.stdout.
Translate a shell-like glob pattern to a regular expression; return a string containing the regex.
Use getall() to get all the values matching a header field name.
If the two objects compare equal then they will automatically compare almost equal.
The GIL is not released, and Python exceptions are handled correctly.
When an exception occurs in such a statement, the exception name is printed but the debugger's state is not changed.
Register a reduce function for a type.
Apart from the info field, all header fields are 4 bytes in size.
'cmd' is just the argument list for the new process, ie.
Check the warning message when os.chdir() fails.
Reads a Setup file and returns Extension instances.
If turtleshape is a polygon, outline and interior of that polygon is drawn with the newly set colors.
Compares self to other using the abstract representations.
:param clear: If True, delete the contents of the environment directory if it already exists, before environment creation.
Makes all characters lowercase and all slashes into backslashes.
Fail unless a warning of class warnClass is triggered by the callable when invoked with specified positional and keyword arguments.
Then use self.connect() with optional host and port argument.
An XML-RPC client interface for Python.
Write string s to stream and returning an int.
The function relies on the system's "file" command to do the actual work.
Convert a list to a regex string for matching a directive.
interactive prompt objects for printing the license text, a list of contributors and the copyright notice.
Install scripts into the created environment from a directory.
Format and return the specified exception information as a string.
Return None as an extension module cannot create a code object.
Shared methods for the parsed result objects containing a netloc element
Similarly, whitespace in the request line is treated sensibly (allowing multiple spaces between components and allowing trailing whitespace).
For IP sockets, the address info is a pair (hostaddr, port).
Return the code object compiled from source.
Subclasses should ensure that this gets called from overridden close() methods.
Provide a tokeneater() method to detect the end of a code block.
The parameter value (either the returned string, or the VALUE item in the 3-tuple) is always unquoted, unless unquote is set to False.
Test if this network belongs to a private range.
Return a bool indicating whether object was opened for reading.
Private helper function to get signature for arbitrary callable objects.
If you use this argument you may not also use the Popen constructor's "stdin" argument, as it will be used internally.
A subclass must define a classmethod named 'parse' that takes an unfolded value string and a dictionary as its arguments.
For example, with a backupCount of 5 and a base file name of "app.log", you would get "app.log", "app.log.1", "app.log.2", ...
Simple handler for XML-RPC data passed through CGI.
Wait for zombies after self.timeout seconds of inactivity.
distutils.cygwinccompiler Provides the CygwinCCompiler class, a subclass of UnixCCompiler that handles the Cygwin port of the GNU C compiler to Windows.
Return a string suitable for use as an identifier The new name is guaranteed not to conflict with other identifiers.
Standard "encodings" Package Standard Python encoding modules are stored in this package directory.
The default prefix for temporary directories as bytes.
This is useful to "move code" to a different location in a file.
Registers the XML-RPC introspection methods in the system namespace.
Read until one from a list of a regular expressions matches.
Read 'input', apply quoted-printable encoding, and write to 'output'.
Process a request from an HTML browser.
Infinities, NaNs and zeros are returned unaltered.
The function returns True if the handler was successfully removed, False if there was nothing to remove.
Try symlinking a file, and if that fails, fall back to copying.
The file is readable and writable only by the creating user ID.
This is currently a package-private API, but will be considered for promotion to a public API if there is demand.
Replace this node with a new one in the parent.
Returns a list containing all of the addresses.
Write out HTML documentation for all modules in a directory tree.
Args: address: A string or integer, the IP network.
The file descriptor is not inherited by children of this process.
The argument is an exception object or None (the latter meaning a regular EOF is received or the connection was aborted or closed).
If alive then return (obj, func, args, kwargs); otherwise return None
The struct packing format used for the items' packing formats.
The first one is started immediately.
For earlier versions, assume the compiler is MSVC 6.
See the documentation for module "pickle" for information on these methods.
Encode a message header into an RFC-compliant format.
Compile the source string, then disassemble the code object.
Sets the locale for category to the default setting.
The source code is returned as a list of all the lines in the file and the line number indexes a line in that list.
Also, most IMAP servers implement a sub-set of the commands available here.
Argument: angle - a number Rotate the turtleshape by angle from its current tilt-angle, but do NOT change the turtle's heading (direction of movement).
Do not raise an exception if absent.
Authenticate command - requires response processing.
The method uses high-performance os.sendfile if available.
Close the write end after flushing buffered data.
The parse method may add additional keys to the dictionary.
Returns a one-line description of the subtest, or None if no description has been provided.
Compatibility shim for .resources.readers as found on Python 3.10.
The base class, addbase, defines a minimal file-like interface, including read() and readline().
The event can be one of the following: line: A new line of code is going to be executed.
Like FieldStorage, for use when no file uploads are possible.
Open the file in bytes mode, read it, and close the file.
Return the string payload filled with zero bytes up to the next 512 byte border.
args may be a list or tuple of strings.
Returns the complete filename or None if not found.
Common parameter processing for most APIs in this module.
Typecheck and fix up some arguments supplied to various methods.
You could, however, replace this with a custom handler if you wish.
Instances are replaced with an appropriate value in Enum class suites.
It returns a bytes object, encoded using the ENCODING token, which is the first token sequence output by tokenize.
Note: The wrapped version will only accept the object format defined by the codecs, i.e.
Return regex pattern for the format string.
Python Character Mapping Codec for CP858, modified from cp850.
:return: Path to the resulting byte compiled file.
Optional language specifies the RFC 2231 language, defaulting to the empty string.
At runtime this does nothing: it returns the first argument unchanged with no checks or side effects, no matter the actual type of the argument.
Run another program, specified as a command list 'cmd', in a new process.
Print up to 'limit' stack trace entries from the traceback 'tb'.
Return a list of command-line arguments reproducing the current optimization settings in sys.flags.
Compare common files in two directories.
A context manager that copies and restores the warnings filter upon exiting the context.
A LogRecord instance represents an event being logged.
The input lines should retain their terminating linesep characters.
t.debug(flag) turns debugging on or off.
This function is called when a return trap is set here.
After all lines have been read, filename() and the line number functions return the values pertaining to the last line read; nextfile() has no effect.
Optionally specify a formatter which will be used to format each individual record.
TypeError is raised if the argument is not of a type that can contain annotations, and an empty dictionary is returned if no annotations are present.
By default, a unique name is constructed of the form "Thread-N" where N is a small decimal number.
The temporary file names used are different each time the template is used.
Encode the given object and yield each string representation as available.
If it is a mapping then it must at least support getting, setting and deleting items plus iterating over keys.
This clears the queues and shuts down the executor, but does not wait for the executor to finish.
Instantiate a new IPv4 network object.
Delete the turtle's drawings and restore its default values.
A simple test suite that doesn't provide class or module shared fixtures.
Validate a hash-based pyc by checking the real source hash against the one in the pyc header.
Returns a string specifying the bundled version of pip.
Configure lineitem according to provided arguments: coordlist is sequence of coordinates fill is drawing color width is width of drawn line.
True if all top level tokens of this part may be RFC2047 encoded.
Whether this path is a block device.
To Complex, Real adds the operations that work on real numbers.
Module for parsing and testing package version predicate strings.
Set the turtle's first coordinate to x Argument: x -- a number (integer or float) Set the turtle's first coordinate to x, leave second coordinate unchanged.
Return the time part, with tzinfo None.
Construct a datetime from a string in one of the ISO 8601 formats.
Methods in this class recursively traverse an AST and output source code for the abstract syntax; original formatting is disregarded.
Called when the low-level transport's buffer goes over the high-water mark.
code and encoding can be None in case the values cannot be determined or are unknown to this implementation.
Dummy arguments are provided in order to be able to pass listen to the onclick method.
The import machinery does the job itself.
Acquires then releases the module lock for a given module name.
Otherwise the generator is called without modifying the policy.
Member descriptors are specialized descriptors defined in extension modules.
Pull the pen up -- no drawing when moving.
Ignore all flags, if they are raised
Abstract base class for use in implementing a Reduction class suitable for use in replacing the standard reduction mechanism used in multiprocessing.
Implementation of the UUencode and UUdecode functions.
A coroutine which creates a TCP server bound to host and port.
Return the median (middle value) of numeric data.
Its subclasses, BufferedWriter, BufferedReader, and BufferedRWPair buffer streams that are readable, writable, and both respectively.
The current file position is changed to the value of size.
If you need to open a compressed file in text mode, use the gzip.open() function.
The regular median() function would assume that everyone in the tricenarian age group was exactly 35 years old.
Structure with little endian byte order
In-place filtering is disabled when standard input is read.
Extract all members from the value in definition order.
Return a duplicate of handle, which is inheritable
Descends down a directory and refactor every Python file found.
If maxBytes is zero, rollover never occurs.
The pickle is disassembled from the current position, through the first STOP opcode encountered.
At runtime, functions marked this way should return a boolean.
Return True if mode is from an event port.
The result of the future is True if the wait completed, or False if the wait did not complete (on timeout).
Source can be an iterable, a dictionary, or another Counter instance.
Raise ZipImportError if the module couldn't be found.
This class manages a connection to an SMTP or ESMTP server.
Set the class to be used when instantiating a logger with this Manager.
If the path entry is not in the cache, find the appropriate finder and cache it.
IPv4 addresses are supported on all platforms.
Elements are stored as dictionary keys and their counts are stored as dictionary values.
Return a version of the string escaped for inclusion in an RFC-822 header, by ensuring there are 8 spaces space after each newline.
Process the blocks that hold a GNU longname or longlink member.
Return True if the future was cancelled.
Depending on your system, instantiating a Path will return either a PosixPath or a WindowsPath object.
Produce HTML documentation for a function or method object.
Usually the top level object is a dictionary.
Convert a python number to a number field.
Then invoke 'run()' on that command object (or an existing one).
Typically this is for problems that we detect before OSError could be raised.
We recognize the end of the mailbox list only at the end of the value or at a ';' (the group terminator).
It is the quoted string without any attached CFWS.
Delete the named folder, which must be empty.
Initialize the logger with a name and an optional level.
This is essential for getting a correct result.
The triples are monotonically increasing in i and in j.
In this case it is a ValueTerminal.
This method is useful when re-using picklers.
If type is omitted, use the string 'typing.Any'.
If the argument doesn't represent a color, an error is raised.
If the name is used as the target of a function or class statement, this will be true.
- type -- A callable that accepts a single string argument, and returns the converted value.
Returns a single week in a string (no newline).
Each element of the returned sequence is a tuple (name, description)
Save modified and original unmodified value of configuration var
If specified, longopts is a list of strings with the names of the long options which should be supported.
Error 407 -- proxy authentication required.
fallback set to True makes asyncio to manually read and send the file when the platform does not support the sendfile syscall (e.g.
The intended use is to write w.write(data) await w.drain()
This is used when converting levels to text during message formatting.
It itself pulls lines from a differencing iterator, processes them and yields them.
Internal: skip lines until outer boundary if defined.
It must be possible to encode this string to bytes using the character set's output codec.
If a filename is '-' it is also replaced by sys.stdin and the optional arguments mode and openhook are ignored.
A typical implementation should not inherit from a RawIOBase implementation, but wrap one.
We also exclude tabs even though the RFC doesn't.
Create and return a temporary directory.
Return a dictionary containing the mailcap database.
Optional arguments are host (for connect()), and user, passwd, acct (for login()).
Optional splitchars is a string containing characters which should be given extra weight by the splitting algorithm during normal header wrapping.
The IncrementalDecoder remembers the state of the decoding process between calls to decode().
Returns a list of attribute strings, found in the specified object, which represent callable attributes
This method is deprecated, use the .daemon property instead.
Return True if self is negative; otherwise return False.
Error responses are turned into exceptions.
Returns an object that identifies this address' network and netmask.
If 'prefix' is not None, the file name will begin with that prefix, otherwise a default prefix is used.
Load the module specified by 'fullname'.
Make a directory, return its full pathname.
btn -- number of the mouse-button defaults to 1 (left mouse button).
Return a class cls instance based on the input string and the format string.
Given an input Mock, seals it to ensure no further mocks will be generated when accessing an attribute that was not already defined.
Return the group name of the file gid.
Given an object or a path to an object, get the object and its name.
Launch vcvarsall.bat and read the settings from its environment
For more information, see PEP 647 (User-Defined Type Guards).
Setup connection to remote server on "host:port".
Warning raised if an invalid path is specified in PYTHONTZPATH.
A generally useful event scheduler class.
Otherwise, raise HTTPError if no-one else should try to handle this url.
Test if the address is reserved for multicast use.
Generate a UUID from the SHA-1 hash of a namespace UUID and a name.
Set the quota root's resource limits.
Return the path to the source file as found by the finder.
Return true if the pathname refers to an existing directory.
The output format is usable as part of a filename.
Interleave list of addrinfo tuples by family.
If it is an integer greater than 0, then "await put()" will block when the queue reaches maxsize, until an item is removed by get().
An FTP client class and some helper functions.
If it is None, universal newlines is enabled.
The optional argument xbar, if given, should be the mean of the data.
TIFF (can be in Motorola or Intel byte order)
Evaluate all forward references in the given type t.
The default prefix for temporary directories as string.
Return a generator object yielding a tuple of two elements for every file found in path.
(c) Copyright CNRI, All Rights Reserved.
Adjust canvas and scrollbars according to given canvas size.
Set the list of directories that will be searched to 'dirs' (a list of strings).
Set the HTML title of the generated server documentation
Return an ASCII-only JSON representation of a Python string
Set the list of object files (or analogues) to be included in every link to 'objects'.
Create an opener object from a list of handlers.
'owner' and 'group' can be used to define an owner and a group for the archive that is being built.
Extract cookies from response, where allowable given the request.
Then, it is alternately scanned for Distutils commands and options for that command.
Returns True if the normal interaction function must be called, False otherwise.
Class for printing reports on profiled python code.
Converts text with examples to a Python script.
See module copyreg for a mechanism for registering custom picklers.
When the lock is locked, reset it to unlocked, and return.
An AIFF-C file has the following structure.
TarInfo objects are returned by TarFile.getmember(), TarFile.getmembers() and TarFile.gettarinfo() and are usually created internally.
Internal implementation of wait() on Windows.
Returns a copy, unless it is a sNaN.
record is not used, as we are just comparing times, but it is needed so the method signatures are the same
If addr is None use target address pointed on transport creation.
Thread identifiers may be recycled when a thread exits and another thread is created.
Combine the elements of a tuple as returned by urlsplit() into a complete URL as a string.
Return reach of host h, as defined by RFC 2965, section 1.
Collapse and truncate the given text to fit in the given width.
Return 0 if DST is not in effect, or the DST offset (as timedelta positive eastward) if DST is in effect.
Separate the underlying raw stream from the buffer and return it.
If no such method exists the server sends an error response to the client.
Add a per user site-package to sys.path Each user has its own python directory with site-packages in the home directory.
Function that can be used as copytree() ignore parameter.
Test whether data is available on the socket.
Remove all instances of a callback from the "call when done" list.
It is also an error to join() a thread before it has been started and attempts to do so raises the same exception.
Represents the number as an instance of Decimal.
This means that the host bits aren't considered at all in this method.
Convenience function to create Timer object and call timeit method.
getuser() - Get the user name from the environment or password database.
Generate linker options for searching library directories and linking with specific libraries.
These are objects which make the interpreter exit when called.
Ignore the flags, if they are raised
Only test files that match the pattern will be loaded.
Indicate that a formerly enqueued task is complete.
Compute matches when text is a simple name.
Such classes are primarily used with static type checkers that recognize structural subtyping (static duck-typing).
Furthermore GCC will barf if multiple '-isysroot' arguments are present.
fullmatch Match a regular expression pattern to all of a string.
Ctrl-N Cursor down; move down one line.
message (or default) can be accesses as class variable 'msg'
Return a tuple containing the command line, and the mailcap entry used; (None, None) if no match is found.
metadata, if specified, must be a mapping which is stored but not otherwise examined by dataclass.
Returns a named tuple of dicts mapping the current nonlocal, global and builtin references as seen by the body of the function.
Certain character sets must be converted outright, and are not allowed in email.
To allow for variability in how individual files are treated, most of those attributes may be varied on a per-compilation or per-link basis.
This module provides an implementation of the HeaderRegistry API.
foldspaces is an optional flag that uses the special short sequence 'y' instead of 4 consecutive spaces (ASCII 0x20) as supported by 'btoa'.
Support for tasks, coroutines and the scheduler.
Raised when writing a zipfile, the zipfile requires ZIP64 extensions and those extensions are disabled.
Given a path with elements separated by posixpath.sep, generate all parents of that path.
The output is intended to be human readable rather than machine parseable.
Packages are simply modules that (may) have submodules.
Return a new path with the stem changed.
Resolve strings to objects using standard import and attribute syntax.
The Tab Nanny despises ambiguous indentation.
fp: A file-like object with a readline() method.
Returns an instance of the class mimetools.Message containing meta-information associated with the URL.
When completed, the coroutine returns a (transport, protocol) pair.
Create and write docstring-dictionary to file.
Main program, used when run as a script.
Otherwise, the line will be looked up when first needed.
Test whether the path is the specified mode type.
HMAC (Keyed-Hashing for Message Authentication) module.
You can then use the template to do conversions from many different sources to many different destinations.
Return a module spec based on a file location.
If False, write() and truncate() will raise OSError.
Returns a variable-expanded version of 's'.
Check for the existence of a given option in a given section.
:param maxlengths: Maximum line length iterator.
Return True iff this host shouldn't be accessed using a proxy This function uses the MacOSX framework SystemConfiguration to fetch the proxy information.
If the pen is down, a line will be drawn.
In text mode, if encoding is not specified the encoding used is platform dependent.
Converts a string to an integer according to the locale settings.
When the setpos() and rewind() methods are not used, the seek() method is not necessary.
Populates this instance's breaks list from the Breakpoint class's list, which can have breakpoints set by another Bdb instance.
The filename parameter is the base filename for the underlying database.
Return the exact mean and sum of square deviations of sequence data.
Return the bytes value (contents) of the buffer
This is used by servers that accept connections outside of asyncio, but use asyncio to handle connections.
Override in subclass to return suitable 'wsgi.input'
Open the specified file and use it as the stream for logging.
Process a QUIT command and close the socket.
This reduces significantly the number of candidate nodes.
Notification that a TimerHandle has been cancelled.
This returns the hmac value as bytes.
This is used by all other logging functions.
This parameter can either be a plain callback function or a coroutine; if it is a coroutine, it will be automatically converted into a Task.
If initial is present, it is placed before the items of the iterable in the calculation, and serves as a default when the iterable is empty.
For local information send email to Postmaster at your site.